© Sustainalytics 20 21 Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the BTSG Green Bond Framework is credible , impactful and aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2021. This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor y for the use of proceeds , Clean Transportation and S upporting I nfrastructure , is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples 2021 and ASEAN Green Bond Standards 2018 . Sustainalytics considers that investments in the eligible categor y will lead to positive environmental impacts by supporting low carbon mobility in Bangkok and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically SDG 11 . BTSG and affiliates Green Bond Working Gro up (GBWG) will oversee the internal process for evaluat ing and select ing projects . The GBWG consists of representatives from the Treasury, Corporate Communication, Safety and Security, Service Planning and MIS Department s and Finance team of the project s . BT SG and affiliates ' s Executive Committee will be responsible for the final approval of eligible projects in accordance with the eligibility process . BTSG and affiliates ’s is committed to identify ing , assess ing and manag ing environmental, health and safety risks during project evaluation. Sustainalytics considers this process to be adequate . BTSG and affiliates ’s Accounting team will oversee the management of proce eds, which will track allocation to eligible assets using internal information system s. U nallocated proceeds will be held in cash or cash equivalents , short - term and liquid marketable securities and/or be used to repay existing debt . BTSG and affiliates in tends to reach full allocation within 24 months of date. This process is in line with market practices BTSG and affiliates intends to report on the allocation of proceeds on its website on an annual basis until full allocation. Allocation reporting will include the amount of allocated and unallo cated proceeds as well as a summary of projects . In addition, when available, BTSG and affiliates will report on relevant environmental impact metrics. Sustainalytics views BTSG and affiliates allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice . Evaluation D ate September 29 , 2021 Issuer Locatio n Bangkok , Thailand Report Sections Introduction ................................ ........... 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion .......................... 3 Appendices ................................ ............ 8 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Cristhian Veintimilla (Amsterdam) Project Manager cristhian.veintimilla@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 02 09 Arnab Deb (Mumbai) Project Support Chetna Chauhan (Mumbai) Project Support Maliha Taj (Mumbai) Project Support Nicholas Gandolfo (Singapore) Client Relations susfinance.apac@sustainalytics.com (+852) 3008 2391 Alignment with the ASEAN Green Bond Standards The ASEAN Green Bond Standards provide guidance to issuers and communicate more specifically what an issuer should do to issue a credible green bond within Southeast Asia. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the green categories under the BTSG Green Bo nd Framework align with the ASEAN Green Bond Standards.,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 2 Introduc tion BTS Group Holdings PCL ( “ BTSG ” , or the “Company ”) and affiliates operates mass transit, media, property and service businesses in Thailand. Bangkok Mass Transit System PCL (“BTSC”), BTSG’s mass transit unit, which accounts for the majority o f the group’s revenues, operates and maintains the Sky Train system, an elevated trackwork in Bangkok, covering 68.25 kilometers of train tracks, and the Bus Rapid Transit System with 12 stations through 15 kilometers of dedicated bus lane . BTSG was founded in 1968 and is headquartered in Bangkok , Thailand . BTSG and affiliates has developed the BTSG Green Bond Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which BTSG and affiliates intend s to issue a green bond and use the proceeds to finance and/ or refinance, in whole or in part, existing and/ or future projects that contribute to development of electrified transportation services and related - infrastructures while supporting the C ompany’s strategy and vision . The F ra mework defines eligibility criteria in one area: 1. Clean Transportation and Supporting Infrastructure BTSG and affiliates engaged Sustainalytics to review the BTSG Green Bond Framework , dated September 2021 , and provide a S econd - P arty O pinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021 ( the “ GBP ” ) 1 the ASEAN Green Bond Standards 2018 (the “AGBS”) 2 . This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 3 This Second - Party Opinion is an update to BTSG Green Bond Framework Second - Party Opinion dated October 2020. Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics ’ Second - Party Opinion Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent 4 o pinion on the alignment of the reviewed Framework with the current market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories are credible and impactful. As part of the Second - Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: • T he Framewor k’s alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021 , as administered by ICMA and the ASEAN Green Bond Standards 2018 , as administered by the ASEAN Capital Markets Forum ; • The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds ; and • The alignme nt of the issuer ’ s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk management in relation to the use of proceeds . For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.10 .1 , which is informed by market practice and Sustainalytics ’ expertise as an ESG research provider. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of BTSG and affiliates management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business p rocesses and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework. BTSG and affiliates representatives have confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of BTSG and affiliates to ensure that the i nformation provided is complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant information and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalytics also reviewed releva nt public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with that Framework. Any update of the present Second - Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement conditions between Sustainalytics and BTSG . 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - prin ciples - gbp/ . 2 The ASEAN Green Bond Standards are administered by the ASEAN Capital Markets Forum and are available at http://www.theacmf.org/ACMF/upload/GREENBONDACMF.pdf 3 The BTSG Green Bond Framework is available on BTS Group Holdings PCL ’s website at: http://www.btsgroup.co.th/en/sustainability/gr een - bond 4 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustai nalytics and ensuring analyst independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of com mercial and research (and engagement) teams, data protection and systems separ ation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency.,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 3 Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible projects expected to be financed with bond proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The measurement and reporting of the impact achiev ed through projects financed under the Framework is the responsibility of the Framework owner. In addition, the Second - Party Opinion opines on the potential allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee the realised allocation of the bond proceeds towards eligible activities. No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second - Party Opinion shall be considered as being a statement, representation, warrant or argument , either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that BTSG and affiliates has made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second - Party Opinion . Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the BTSG Green Bond Framework Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the BTSG Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns to the four core components of the GBP . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of BTSG ’ s G reen B ond F ramework: • Use of Proceeds : - The eligible use of category of the BTSG Green Bond Framework , Clean T ransportation and S upporting I nfrastructure , is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles 20 21 and the ASEAN Green Bond Standard 2018 . Sustainalytics is of the opinio n that the projects financed will contribute to a reduction in Bangkok’s GHG footprint. - BTSG and affiliates has established a 30 - month look - back period for refinancing activities which Sustainalytics considers to be in line with market practice. - BTSG and affiliates intends to finance and refinance investment s, purchases , modernization, operating expenditures, maintenance and refurbishment of C lean T ransportation and S upporting i nfrastructure. This includes: E lectric - powered vehicles including passenger trains and feeder vehicles such as taxis and motorbikes. Electrical and mechanical systems (E&M) including but not limited to r ail platform , support beam, rail depot and workshop facilities, signaling system and au tomatic fare collection system as supporting infrastructure for Green line North and South Extension . Eligible operating expenditure s will include the cost of annual maintenance of assets , upgrad es that extend the useful life of assets , and the salar ies of maintenance workers . Sustain alytics considers these investments to be in line with market standards. - The exclusionary criteria outlined in the Framework exclude the following: exploration, production or transportation of fossil fuel; generation of nuclear power; activities/projects associated with child labor/forced labor. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that these exclusions strengthen the Framework. • Project Evaluation and Selection: - BTSG and affi liates has established a Green Bond Working Group (GBWG) , which will comprise of representatives from Treasury Department, Corporate Communication Department, Service Planning and MIS Department and Finance team of the projects. - GBWG will review and select project as per the criteria listed in the Framework and send it across to the Executive Committee for review and final approva l. - BTSG and affiliates has in place a process to identif y and assesses and manage environmental, health and safety (EH&S) risks d uring project evaluation. Sustainalytics considers this risk assessment and mitigation process to be adequate and to be aligned with market expectation . For additional detail see Section 2 of this document.,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 4 • Management of Proceeds: - BTSG and affiliates ’s a ccounting team wil l oversee the management of proceeds , which will track allocation to eligible assets using an internal system on a qua rterly basis . Unallocated proceeds will be held in cash or cash equivalents , short - term and liquid marketable securities and/or be used to repay existing debts. BTSG and affiliates intends to reach full allocation within 24 months from the bond issuance date and will adhere to the exclusionary criteria . BTSG and affiliates confirmed that at least half of the proceeds will be allocated within one year while full allocation will be completed within two years from the issuance. In accordance with Climate Bonds Standard version 3.0 . 5 - Based on the presence of an internal track ing system and disclosure on temporary allocation of proceeds, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. • Reporting: - BTSG and affiliates intends to report on the allocation of proceeds until full allocation of proceeds and im pact of net proceeds on the Company’s website on an annual basis. BTSG and affiliates’s allocation reporting will include the balance amount of allocated and unallocated net proceeds as well as a summary of projects and the portion of proceeds use for fina ncing vs refinancing. In addition, BTSG and affiliates is committed to , where possible, report on impact including relevant impact metrics such as number of passengers using the financed electric transportation per year and the reduction of CO 2 emissions p er year. - Based on the annual allocation and impact reporting commitme nt, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. Alignment with ASEAN Green Bond Standards 2018 The ASEAN Green Bond Standards provide guidance to issuers and communicate more specifically what an issuer should do to issue a credible green bond within Southeast Asia. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the BTSG Green Bond Framework aligns with the ASEAN Green Bond Standards 2018. See Appendix 1: Al ignment to the ASEAN Green Bond Standards. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 20 21 Sustainalytics has determined that BTSG and affiliates green bond aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 20 21 . For detailed information please ref er to Appendix 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: S ustainability Strategy and Performance of BTSG Contribution of framework to BTS Group Holdings PCL ’s sustainability strategy BTSG and affiliates has implemented a sustainab le corporate strategy, The City Solutions Concept, as a guideline to the Company’s operations and business model. The strategy includes commitment to execute energy efficiency management as well as the conservation and reduction of natural resources 6 as w ell as the following initiatives and targets: • BTSG and affiliates developed an environmental policy in which it commits to a sustainable and environmentally friendly operating railway, 7 i.e. electrified railways as well as initiatives such as a washing plant that reduces water, soap and disinfectants used, and managing significant environmental impacts in a proactive manner through implementing energy consumption measures, as well as promoting environmental impact awareness amongst its employees. 8 BTS also operates one of the world’s safest mass transit system s and has so far handled all its passengers with no loss of life or injury. 9 This is accomplished with the help of various train and station operating features laid out by BTSG and affiliates . 14 • Bangkok Mass Transit System PCL (BTSC) established an Energy Management System Committee in 2014/15 to focus on energy related issues, which includes oversight by the Chief Executive Officer serving 5 Climate Bonds Standard v ersion 3 .0 available at : https://www.climatebonds.net/2019/12/climate - bonds - launches - version - 3 - international - climate - bonds - standarduniversal 6 BTS, “Sustainability at BTSG” , a t: http://www.btsgroup.co.th/en/sustainability/sustainability - guidelines 7 BTSG identifies environmentally friendly operating railways in terms of CO2 emissions generated and energy consumption 8 BTSG Company Policies: https://bts.podrealm.com/website/eng/info/info - company_policies.html 9 BTS, “Safety System”, at https://bts.podrealm.com/website/eng/library/system - security.html,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 5 as head of the committee. More over, a third - party audit and verification of the energy related data is conducted on an annual basis. 10 • BT SG and affiliates has defined energy - related thresholds and targets, such as not exceeding total electricity consumption of 2.80 kWh/car - km, traction power of <50 0 kWh/1,000 passengers - km/month, and total electricity consumption of < 82 ,000 kWh/Day at train stations by 20 20 / 21 . 15 Even though BTSG and affiliates has seen an increase in passengers and serviced route expansion, the Company has confirmed that it met all three targets in 2019/2020. • BT SG and affiliates set a target of annual GHG emission s for 2020/21 at 99,210 tonnes CO 2 e and was able to go beyond the target and have emissions of 74,600 tonnes CO 2 e 15 . Based on BTSG and affiliates ’s sustainability policies, strategy and initiatives, Sustainalytics believes that BTSG and affiliates is well positioned to issue green bonds and that the Eligible Green Assets will help the Company advance its sustainability strategy a s well as the overall climate ambitions of the Government of Thailand. Well - positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While the eligible category is recognized as impactful by the Green Bond Principles 2018, Sustainalytics also recognizes that development of clean transportation and infrastructure might entail environmental risks related to infrastructure construction, including waste disposal, loss of biodiversity and land use change as well as social risks s uch as workers’ health and safety, and community opposition. Sustainalytics highlights the following measures of BTSG and affiliates and relevant regulation that mitigate related risks: • According to Thailand’s Notification of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment regarding the types and specifications of projects that require an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Report, land allocation and construction activities related to roads, highway and train lines is subject to the EIA Report requirement . 11 • In line with its risk management policy, BTSG and affiliates’s risk management working group conducts risk assessments which include the environmental impact of the Company’s operations. BTSG and affiliates ’s Environmental Management System is aligned with ISO 14001 12 and OHSAS 18001 13 standards, providing additional assurance that BTSG and affiliates ’s environmental and occupational health and safety management systems are aligned with international standards. • BTSG and affiliates has established a saf ety policy to manage occupational health and safety through identifying hazards, minimizing risks and implementing risk reduction and control measures together with regular reviews of safety related processes. 14 Moreover, BTSG and affiliates provides discl osure on the implementation of the policy including frequency of trainings and number of accident s , such as zero employee accident in the workplace in 2017/18. • BTSG and affiliates has identified engagement channels, and disclosure of information for each stakeholder, including communities to voice their interests and provide feedback during decision making processes. 15 BTSG and affiliates confirmed to Sustainalytics that public consultation had been conducted for the projects financed by the green bonds. • BTSG and affiliates ’s Supplier Code of Business Conduct defines environmental, social and governance commitments required from suppliers to ensure sustainable business throughout the Company’s supply chain. Moreover, BTSG and affiliates conducts suppliers’ risk assessment on a n annual basis to identify potential environmental risks resulting from critical suppliers, 16 indicating that the Company’s sustainability efforts go beyond its own operations. Based on the regulatory requirements in Thailand, BTSG and affiliates initiat ives on environmental protection and community engagement, Sustainalytics believes that BTSG and affiliates is well positioned to mitigate environmental and social risks associated with the eligible use of proceeds category . Section 3: Impact of Use of Pr oceeds The use of proceed s categor y is aligned with those recognized by the GBP. Sustainalytics has focused below on how the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. 10 BTSG Green Bond Framework 11 Notification of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment: https://www.jetro.go.jp/ext_images/thailand/pdf/iee_chonburi.pdf 12 The OHSAS 18001 an international standard d esigned to enable organizations to control risks and improve performance in the area of occupational health and safety. 13 ISO 14001 is an international standard that specifies requirements for an effective environmental management system (EMS) 14 BTSG, “BTS G Safety Policy”, at: http://www.btsgroup.co.th/en/sustainability/sustainable - performances/relevant - policies 15 BTSG, “Sustainability Report 2017/2018” at : http://www.btsgroup.co.th/storage/download/sustainability/sr/bts - sd201718 - en.pdf 16 BTS, “BTSG Sustainability Report 2020/2021”(2020) at: https://www.btsgroup.co.th/storage/download/sustainability/sr/sd - report202021 - en - for - double - pages.pdf,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 6 Importance of providing Clean Transportation in Bangkok Thailand’s transportation sector relies 85% on road transportation, 17 mainly using private cars and motorcycles . These activities increas e urban air pollution, and GHG emissions. 18 In addition, the transport sector accounts for more than one - third of final energy con sumption, 19 33.3 % of total GHG emission in Thailand , 20 and 38% of GHG emissions in Bangkok. 18 The rapid development of the Thai economy and its extensive rice - p roducing capacity made the Bangkok Metropolitan Region (BMR) the country’s most significant urban hub, accounting for almost 80% of the total urban area 21 and 22% of the total population 22 in Thailand. Population increase, and land use change have led to a rapid motorization in BMR, reaching a high level of motorcycle and car ownership before a mass transit system w as established. 23 To mitigate mobility challenges and foster a shift towards mass and low carbon transit, the Government of Thailand adopted sev eral transportation targets in its 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan (2017 - 2021) 24 such as raising the proportion of passengers using public transportation systems, fostering the construction of mass - transit city - rail projects in the BMR, and expanding the mass rapid transit lines in BMR. In addition, the Government of Thailand set its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution in 2015, 25 aiming to reduce GHG emissions by 20% from the projected business - as - usual (BAU) level by 2030 or a re duction of approximately 555 MtCO2e, compared to 2005 levels. Moreover, the Bangkok Action Plan on Global Warming Mitigation (2013 - 2023) 26 includes a set of climate change mitigation and adaptation measures including environmentally sustainable transport and green urban planning. Since BTSG and affiliates intends to use its green bond proceeds to invest in clean transportation assets, inclu ding electrified mass transit, and supporting infrastructure, Sustainalytics considers that BTSG and affiliates ’s investments will contribute to Thailand’s mobility and GHG emissions targets and foster a shift towards electrified mass transit in Bangkok. A lignment with/ contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. The green bond issued under the BTSG Gr een Bond Framework advances the following SDG and target: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Clean Transportation and Supporting Infrastructure 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with s pecial attention to the needs of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and older persons 17 S. Pravinvongvuth, A sian C enter for Transportation S tudies, “ Transportation Infrastructure in Thailand: Go Green or Go Grey ” , (2017), at : http://www.uncrd.o r.jp/content/documents/5602Presentation%205%20%20Module%202%20 - %20Mr.%20Surachet%20Pravinvongvuth.pdf 18 N . Tulyasuwan “ Private Motorized Transport, Bangkok, Thailand ” , ( 2013 ), at: https://unhabitat.org/sites/default/files/2013/06/GRHS.2013.Case_.Study_.Bangkok.Thailand.pdf 19 The World Bank Group, “ Thailand: Clean Energy for Green Low - Carbon Growth ”, (2011), at : http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/576401468120848097/pdf/662200WP0p12440e0Clean0Energy0all07.pdf 20 A. Chaichaloempreecha, International Energy Journal, “Assessm ent of Thailand’s Energy Policy on CO 2 Emissions: Implication of National Energy Plans to Achieve NDC Target”, (2019), 47 - 60, at: https://www.thaiscience.info/Journals/Article/ IENJ/10992290.pdf 21 The World Bank, “ Urbanization in Thailand is Dominated by the Bangkok Urban Area ”, (2015), at: https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2015/01/26/urbanization - in - thailand - is - dominated - by - the - bangkok - urban - area 22 World ’s Capital Cities, “ Capital Facts for Bangkok, Thailand ”, (2021), at : https://www.worldscapitalcities.com/capital - facts - for - bangkok - thailand/ 23 P.A. Barter, National U niversity of Singapore, “ Transport, urban structure and ‘lock - in’ in the Kuala Lumpur Metropolitan Area ”, (2004), at: https://lkyspp.nus.edu.sg/docs/default - source/faculty - publications/paul - a - barter/barter - lockin - in - kl - idpr - paper.pdf?sfvrsn=9230940b_2 24 Green Policy Platform, “ The 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan of Thailand 2017 - 2021”, (201 7), at : https://www.greengrowthknowledge.org/national - documents/thailand - twelfth - national - economic - and - social - development - plan - 2017 - 2021#:~:text=Thail and%20Twelfth%20National%20Economic%20and%20Social%20Development%20Plan%20(2017%2D2021), - January%202017&text=It%20emphasizes%20the%20use%20of,communities%20along%20transborder%20economic%20corridors 25 UNFCCC, “Thailand’s Updated Nationally Determined Cont ribution ”, (2020), at: https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/ndcstaging/PublishedDocuments/Thailand%20First/Thailand%20Updated%20NDC.pdf 26 Mayors for Peace, “ Bangkok Master Plan on Climate Change 2013 - 2023 ”, (2018), at: http://www.mayorsforpeace.org/english/whatsnew/activities/data/2018/Bangkok_ Master_Plan_on_Climate_Change.pdf,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 7 Conclusion BTSG and affiliates has developed the BTSG Green Bond Framework under which BTSG and affiliates may issue green bonds and use the proceeds to finance clean transportation projects including electric mass transit and infrastructure supporting clean transportation operations . Sustainalytics considers that the project funded by the green bond proceeds are expected to provide positive environmental impact . The BTSG Green Bond Framework outlines a process by which proceeds will be tracked, allocated, and managed, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocation and impact of the use of proceeds. Furthermore, Sustainalytics believes that the BTSG Green Bond Framework is align ed with the overall sustainability strategy of the C ompany and that the green use of proceed s category will contribute to the advancement of the UN Sustainable Development Goa l 11 . Additionally, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that BTSG and affiliates has adequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible projects funded by the proceeds. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that BTSG and affiliates is well - positioned to issue green bonds and that th e BTSG Green Bond Framework is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 20 21 .,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 8 Append ix Appendix 1: Alignment to the ASEAN Green Bond Standards ASEAN Green Bond Standards’ Criteria Alignment with ASEAN GBS Sustainalytics’ comments on alignment with the ASEAN Green Bond Standards. Eligibility Yes The AGBS requires that issuers must be located in or that the proceeds be directed to assets in an ASEAN country. As a Thailand - based institution, BTSG and affiliates qualifies. Use of Proceeds Yes The AGBS offers specific clarification that fossil fuel power generation projects are excluded; BTSG and a ffiliates only invests in electric transportation and supporting infrastructure and has an exclusions list for the following activities: exploration, production or transportation of fossil fuel; generation of nuclear power; activities/projects associate wi th child labor/forced labor. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection Yes The AGBS specifies information that must be clearly communicated to investors before issuance regarding project selection. Within its framework, BTSG and affiliates has described that an internal working group comprising representatives from the company’s Treasury Department, Corporate Communication Department, Safety and Security Department, Service Planning and MIS Department and Finance team will select projects, and that its Executive Committee will make the final approval. Management of Proceeds Yes The AGBS mandates that proceeds must be appropriately tracked and that temporary investments be disclosed. Within its framework, BTSG and affiliates disclosed that the green bond proceeds will be segregated into separate accounts within BTSG and affiliates ’s finance and reporting system. Pending full allocation, the unallocated green bond proceeds will be held in cash or cash equivalents , or invested in short and liquid marketable securities which are not inconsistent with the delivery of a low carbon and c limate resilient economy, or applied to temporarily reduce indebtedness of a revolving nature, where the original loan of which is not inconsistent with the delivery of a low carbon and climate resilient economy, before being redrawn for investments or dis bursements to eligible green assets. BTSG and affiliates intends to fully allocate within 24 months from the bond issuance date. Reporting Yes The AGBS requires annual reporting on the allocation of funds and the expected impacts. BTSG and affiliates states that it will provide an annual allocation report until full allocation and commits to report on the impact of the use of proceeds, depending on data availability, on an annual basis. Annual Review Yes The AGBS encourages, but does not require, annual reviews. The BTSG and affiliates commits to have a CBI post - issuance assurance report .,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 9 Append ix 2 : Green B ond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: BTS Group Holdings PCL and/or affiliates Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : BTSG Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: September 29 , 2021 Publication date of review publication: Update to 2020 Sustainalytics SPO, published October 20 20 Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements an d confirmed their alignment with the GBP: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) :,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 10 BTSG and affiliates intends to finance and refinance investments, purchases, modernization, operating expenditures, maintenance and refurbishment of Clean Transportation and Supporting infrastructure. Sustainalytics considers these investments to be in line with market stand ards. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☐ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☒ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBP ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBP: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): BTSG and affiliates ’s Green Bond Working Group (GBWG) will oversee the internal process for evaluating and selecting projects. The GBWG consists of representatives from the Treasury, Cor porate Communication, Safety and Security, Service Planning and MIS Departments and Finance team of the project(s). BTSG and affiliates ' Executive Committee will be responsible for the final approval of eligible projects in accordance with the eligibility process. BTSG and affiliates ’s is committed to identifying, assessing and managing environmental, health and safety risks during project evaluation. Sustainalytics considers this process to be adequate . Evaluation and selection ☐ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☐ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and man age potential ESG risks associated with the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 11 Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : BTSG and affiliates ’s a ccounting team will oversee the management of proceeds, which wi ll track allocation to eligible assets using internal information systems. Unallocated proceeds will be held in cash or cash equivalents, short - term and liquid marketable securities and/or be used to repay existing debt. BTSG and affiliates intends to reac h full allocation within 24 months of date. This process is in line with market practices . Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): BTSG and affiliates intends to report on the allocation of proceeds on its website on an annual basis until full allocation. Allocation reporting will include the amount of allocated and unallocated proceeds as well as a summary of projects. In addition, when available, BTSG and affiliates will report on relevant environmental impact metrics. Sustainalytics views BTSG and affiliates ’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Use of proceeds reporting : ☒ Project - by - project ☐ On a project portfolio b asis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 12 Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify): : Number of passengers using electric transportation of project financed Frequency ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): BTSG website ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) https://www.btsgroup.co.th/en/home SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 13 ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second - Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second - Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second - Party Opinion. It normally entails an as sessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification ma y focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestatio n regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can hav e its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredi ted third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified thir d parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 14 Disclaimer Copyright ©202 1 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalyt ics, or provided that appropriate citation and acknowledgement is ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project; (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice or a prospectus; (3) cannot be interpreted as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up - to - datene ss or fitness for a particular purpose. The information and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the informati on, data or opinions contained herein, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list of our third - party data providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal - disclaimers . The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion BTSG Green Bond Framework 15 About Sustainalytics , a Morningstar Company Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around the world with the development and imp lementation of responsible investment strategies. The firm works with hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their investment processes. The world’s for emost issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, also rely on Sustainalytics for credible second - party opinions on green, social and sustainable bond frameworks. In 2020, Climate Bonds Initiative named Sustainalytics the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” for the third consecutive year. The firm was also recognized by Environmental Finance as the “Largest External Reviewer” in 2020 for the second consecutive year. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com .