© Sustainalytics 20 21 Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Bankinter Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018. This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor ies for the use of proceeds are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples. Sustainalytics considers that investments into renewable energy and green buildings will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Developm ent Goals 7 and 11 . Bankinter S.A’ s internal process in evaluating and sele cting loans and projects is managed by a Green Bond Committee. Projects will be pre - selected by the Investment Banking Department and Commercial Department and presented to the Green Bond Committee who evaluates the projects against eligibility criteria an d makes the final decision. The Committee will meet at least twice a year to review project eligibility. Sustainalytics views this process a s aligned with market practice. Bankinter S.A ’ s processes for management of proceeds is handled by the Green Bond Committee. Loans will be tracked by the committee and a register will be managed by the Treasury Department. Unallocated proceeds will be invested in green bonds of Eu ropean issuers that are in line with the Bank’s investment guidelines. Sustainalytics views this process as aligned with market practice and positively highlights the temporary allocation of unallocated proceeds into green bonds. Bankinter S.A intends to report on allocation of proceeds on its website on an annual basis until full allocation . In addition, Bankinter S.A is committed to reporting on relevant impact metric s . Sustainalytics views Bankinter S.A ’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Evaluation D ate July 07 , 2021 1 Issuer Locatio n Madrid , Spain Report Sections Introduction ................................ ............. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ........................... 3 Append ices ................................ ............. 8 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Charles Cassaz (Amsterdam) Project Manager charles.cassaz@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 02 09 Anirban Sengupta (Mumbai) Project Support Enrico Tessadro (Amsterdam) Client Relations susfinance.emea@sustainalytics.com (+44) 20 3880 0193 1 This document is an update of a Second - Party Opinion, originally published on November 19 , 2019, to which Sustainalytics has made minor revisions.,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 2 Introduction Bankinter S.A ( “ Bankinter ” , or the “ Bank ”) provides retail and corporate banking services and financial services throughout Spain. The Bank offers mortgage loans, pension plans , life insurance, lease financing, credit cards, mutual funds, online stock brokerage, private banking and Internet banking services . Bankinter has developed the Bankinter Green Bond Framework (the “Framework”) under which it intends to issue one or more green bonds and use the proceeds to finance and/or refinance, in whole or in part, loans to existing an d/or future green building and renewable energy projects. The Framework defines eligibility criteria in the following areas: 1. Renewable Energy 2. Green Buildings Bankinter engaged Sustainalytics to review the Bankinter Green Bond Framework , dated Ju ly 2021 , and provide a S econd - P arty O pinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) . 2 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 3 Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics ’ Second - Party Opinion Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent 4 opinion on the alignment of the reviewed Framework with the current market standards and the extent to which t he eligible project categories are credible and impactful. As part of the Second - Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: • T he Framework’s alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2018, as administered by ICMA ; • The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds ; and • The alignment of the issuer ’ s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk management in relation to the use of proceeds . For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.9.1 which is informed by market practice and Sustainalytics ’ expertise as an ESG research provider. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Bankinter ’s management team to und erstand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework. Bankinter representatives have confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of Bankinter to ensure that the information provided is complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant information and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Su stainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with that Framework. Any update of the present Second - Party Opinion will be c onducted according to the agreed engagement conditions between Sustainalytics and Bankinter . Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any align ment with future versions of relevant market standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible projects expected to be financed with bond proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The measurem ent and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framework is the responsibility of the Framework owner. 2 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ . 3 The Bankinter Green Bond Framework is available on Bankinter ’ s website at: https://webcorporativa.bankinter.com/www2/corporativa/es/sostenibilidad/Green_Bond_Framework 4 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustainalytics and ensuring analyst independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust con flict management framework th at specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of commercial and research (and engagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not direct ly tied to specific commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency.,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 3 In addition, the Second - Party Opinion opines on the potential allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee the realised a llocation of the bond proceeds towards eligible activities. No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second - Party Opinion shall be considered as being a statement, representation, warrant or argument , either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that Bankinter has made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second - Party Opinion . Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Bankinter Green Bond Framework Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Bankinter Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns to the four core components of the GBP . Sustainalytics highlights the following ele ments of Bankinter ’s G reen B ond F ramework : • Use of Proceeds: - The use of proceeds categories of the Bankinter Green Bond Framework , R enewable E nergy and G reen B uildings , are aligned with the those recognized by the Green Bond Principles. Sustainlaytics notes that the assets financed under the Framework are expected to contribute to a low - carbon economy. - Within the Renewable Energy category, Bankinter may finance wind po wer, solar photovoltaic and concentrated solar power (CSP) assets. Bankinter has confirmed that CSP facilities will derive 100% of the electricity generated from solar energy sources. - Regarding financing for G reen B uildings, for the acquisition of building s that have been built after December 2018, the building must have an Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) label of A. For buildings built prior to 2018, buildings may have an EPC label of A – C, Bankinter has provided evidence to Sustainalytics that these buildings fall within the top 15% of building stock, which is aligned with market practice. - Bankinter may provide general purpose loans to companies that derive 90% of their revenue from activities that are described above. Sustainalytics recognizes that the GBP prefer project - based lending and financing, and that there is, in general, less transparency with non - project - based lending. While the Framework allows for general purpose lending to pure - plays, Sustainalytics notes the high threshold (90% of reve nue) that Bankinter has established in order to deem a company eligible for inclusion. - Bankinter has established a look - back period of up three - years for the refinancing of assets, which is aligned with market practice. • Project Evaluation and Selection: - The project evaluation and selection process is managed by the Green Bond Committee (the “Committee”), which is comprised of the Head of Funding & ALM, the Head of Sustainability, the Head of Project Finance, Head of Funding, Head of Investor Relations, He ad of Product Department, Head of Risk Department and a member of the Treasury Coordination Desk. The Investment Banking Department and Commercial Department will pre - select and present potential eligible loans to the Committee, which is then ultimately re sponsible for evaluating the alignment against the eligibility criteria and determining asset eligibility. This process is overseen by the Sustainability Committee, which is headed by the Chairman of Bankinter. Sustainalytics positively highlights the broa d representation of different departments in the Committee and views this process as robust and aligned with market practice. • Management of Proceeds: - The Committee is responsible for the management of proceeds. Proceeds will be managed on a portfolio basis and loans will be tracked via a register managed by the Treasury team. Bankinter will strive to ensure that the value of portfolio assets match/exceed the total value of the bond. Unallocated funds will be invested in green bonds of European issuers that are in line with the bank investment guidelines. Sustainalytics positively highlights the temporary,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 4 investment of unallocated proceeds in other green bonds and views this process as aligned with market practice . • Reporting: - On an annual basis, until full al location, Bankinter will provide allocation and impact reporting on its corporate website. Regarding allocation of proceeds, Bankinter will disclose the total outstanding amount of green bonds, the total allocation of green bond proceeds to green loan cate gories, the share of financing vs refinancing, performance reporting on the positive environmental impact attributed to Bankinter’s share of financing and, where possible additional information on green projects. Additionally, Bankinter will report on rele vant key performance indicators, including total renewable energy generation (MWh/yr), installed renewable energy capacity (MW), GHG savings (tonnes CO 2 - e/yr), EPC label information and reduction in energy use (MWh/yr). The Bank may hire an external audito r to verify allocation reporting. Sustainalytics views this process as aligned with market practice. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determined that the Bankinter Green Bond Framework aligns to the four core components of the GBP . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 1 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of Bankinter Contribution of framework to Bankinter ’s sustainability strategy Bankinter est ablished a Sustainability Policy in March 2021, which is based on a strategic plan for 2021 – 2030 called “ Committed to sustainable and inclusive development.” 5 The policy integrates ESG principles into the bank’s operations and aims to address challenges related to responsible business practices, sustainable finance, financial inclusion and climate change. Bankinter’s climate change strategy is focused towards identifying and mitigating climate change risks by supporting initiatives towards sustainable development. The Bank supports the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate - Related Financial Disclosures, to disclose and manage the risks and opportunities due to climate change at the Bank’s management level. Some of the key objectives under the climate strategy involves achieving carbon neutrality by the end of 2020 , reducing climate and environmental risks around B ank’s operati ons and promoting expansion of sustainable finance products to involve more stakeholders in climate risk management. 6 The activities financed by this Framework will contribute to the Bank’s governance and environmental goals . For example, regarding the governance dimension, Bankinter considers the promotion of clean energy sources, specifically photovoltaic and wind power, as a key objective. In 2020, Bankinter financed sixteen renewable energy projects in Spain and Portugal . 7 As per the Impact Report for the green bond that was issued in 2020, 80% of the portfolio consisted of renewable energy while the rest has been used for financing or refinancing green building and corporate lending to green pureplays . As a result of fi nancing the various projects it was calculated that 267,628 tCO 2 e emissions were avoided. 8 The Bank also offers a wide range of sustainable finance products, including the Bankinter Sustainability Fund, which invests in equities that are included in soci al and environmental responsibility indices; Bankinter also has a dedicated Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund to invest in green projects, including electricity storage, renewable energies and water and waste management and a range of other sustainabl e finance products. 9 5 Bankinter, “Sustainability Plan”, (2021), at: https://webcorporativa.bankinter.com/www2/corporativa/en/sostenibilidad/informe 6 Bankinter, “Strategy for Climate Change”, at: https://webcorporativa.bankinter.com/www2/corporativa/en/sostenibilidad/eje_medioambiental/politica_medioambiental 7 Bankinter , “ 2020 Consolidated Non - Financial Information Statement ”, (20 21 ), at: https://webcorporativa.bankinter.com/stf/tr aducciones/ingles/web_corporativa/responsabilidad_corporativa/informe/einf_en_.pdf 8 Bankinter, “Bankinter Green Bond Report” (2021), at: https://webcorporativa.bankinter.com/stf/web_corporativa/responsabilidad_corporativa/bankinter_green_bond_framework/bankinter _green_bond_repo rt__def.pdf 9 Bankinter, “Socially responsible investing”, (20 19), at: https://webcorporativa.bankinter.com/www2/corporativa/en/sostenibilidad/eje_economico/principios_ecuador,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 5 In relation to the environmental dimension, the Bank’s Environmental policy is broadly aimed at enhancing the positive impacts and minimizing the negative effects of its activity on the environment. This includes monitoring the impac ts generated by the Bank’s activities, both direct and indirect. 7 Sustainalytics notes that the Bank has not established any time - bound quantitative targets related to its sustainable financing activities, which is encouraged. However, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Bank has a robust sustainability strategy and the activities financed under this Framework will contribute to that strategy. Well - positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While Sustainalytics recognizes that the net proceeds from the bond(s) issued under the Framework will be directed towards eligible projects that are expected to have positive environmental impact, Sustainalytics is aware that such eligible projects could also lead to negativ e environmental and social outcomes . Some key environmental and social risks associated with financing eligible projects could include land use change, worker health and safety and related biodiversity risk. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Bankinter is able to manage and/or mitigate potential risks through implementation of the following: The Bank’s Environment policy serves as an overarching framework for financing different projects and the B ank’s operation. The policy ensures that the bank is com pliant to all the applicable local and national environment laws, expand the coverage of operations under it s Environment Management S ystems and supports the development of products and services that promotes environment management and climate risk mitigat ion. 10 Bankinter is not directly responsible for the environmental and social risks associated with the projects financed under this F ramework , h owever, through its Risk Management and Control Framework, the Bank has defined Investment Sustainability Principles based on a wide range of recommendations including The United Nations Global Compact, to which the Bank has adhered since 2008. Bankinter i s committed to ensur ing that direct and indirect environmental impacts of its activities are identified, measured and controlled. 7 Bankinter’s financ ing and lending decisions include environmental and social criteria , h owever, Sustainalytics notes that it is not entirely clear what environmental and social criteria are considered during the investment decision - making process. Nevertheless, Bankinter ha s implemented an exclusion policy, 11 including specific activities from controversial sectors, such as the e xtractive s ector’s activities located in areas considered by UNESCO to be World Heritage sites or wetlands included in the Ramsar list. In addition, Bankinter adheres to the Equator Principles, an internationally recognized risk management framework, which intends to provide a minimum standard for due diligence. Moreover, Bankinter has implemented an Environmental Management System (“EMS”), certifie d by the ISO 14001 standards, covering 47% of its workforce in Portugal and 44% in Spain. 7 The EMS also covers Bankinter’s suppliers and subcontracto rs and includes environmental clauses and certification criteria for projects. Based on these policies, standards and assessments, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Bankinter has implemented adequate measures and is well - positioned to manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible categories. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds All two use of proceeds categories are aligned with those recognized by the GBP. Sustainalytics has focused on below where the im pact is specifically relevant in the local context. The importance of renewable energy in Spain The EU and its Member States (i.e. including Spain) have committed to a binding target through their Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (“INDC”) of at least a 40% domestic reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 level, 12 as well as increasing the proportion of renewables in gross final energy use to 32% 10 Bankinter, “Enviro nment Policy” (2011), at: https://webcorporativa.bankinter.com/stf/web_corporativa/responsabilidad_corporativa/environmental_policy_12_.pdf 11 Bankinter, “Principles and policies related to the sustainability of investment”, (2019), at: htt ps://webcorporativa.bankinter.com/stf/web_corporativa/responsabilidad_corporativa/politicas/principles_related_to_the_sustain ability_of_investme nt.pdf 12 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), “Intended Nationally Determined Contrib ution of the EU and its Member States”, (2015), at: https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/ndcstaging/PublishedDocuments/Austria%20First/LV - 03 - 06 - EU%2 0INDC.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 6 by 2030. 13 Accordingly, Spain aims to cut its GHG emissions by 23% and increase its shar e of renewables by 42% in energy - end use in 2030 compared to 1990 levels, 14 Knowing that the electricity sector is the second largest carbon emitter in Spain after mobility in transport, accounting for 33.1% of Spain’s GHG emissions in 2016 (i.e. 86.4 MtC O2 - eq), 15 Bankinter’s use of proceeds in renewable energy investments may help Spain in reaching its clean energy and GHG emissions reduction targets. In 2020, Spain generated a 43.6% of its electricity from renewable sources, whereas only 2% of the coun try’s production was from coal - fired power stations 16 , which is the largest share in the generation mix recorded since records began in 2007. The Spanish Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan (“PNIEC”) aims at increasing the proportion of renewables in the electricity production to 74% in 2030, in accordance with 2050’s target of 100% ( i.e. carbon neutrality of electricity production) . 14 Therefore, the PNIEC expects to cut emissions from electricity production down by 44 MtCO 2 - eq from 2015 to 2030. 14 As such, Bankinter investments in renewable energy is viewed by Sustainalytics as impactful. Proceeds will contribute to the decarbonization of electricity production and the reduction of fossil - fuels in the gross final e nergy use in Spain and in the EU. The impact of green buildings in Spain Buildings accounts for 40% of final energy consumption and 36% of the GHG emissions in the EU. 17 In Spain, the building sector accounted for 31.4% of gross final energy use in 2018 . 18 As such, greening the building sector is an important part of the energy transition. The EU has therefore put in place several guidelines, including the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive (EPBD) 19 and the Energy Efficiency Directive (EED), 20 bas ed on which substantial progress has been achieved, including an average annual reduction of 1.5% for household energy consumption per dwelling since 2000. 21 Yet, around 35% of the EU's buildings are over 50 years old and almost 75% of the building stock is energy inefficient. 22 In Spain, 58% of the building stock was built before the first regulation was implemented, 23 introducing minimum criteria in energy e fficiency. Moreover, 55% of the Spanish building stock is anterior at 1980 and 21% is more than 50 years old, underlining the need for refurbishment. In fact, at the EU level only 0.4 - 1.2% of the building stock is renovated each year. 24 Renovation of existing building is therefore key to achieve energy savings: at the EU scale, it could lower the overall energy consumption by 5 - 6% and reduce CO 2 emissions by approximately 5%. 22 In addition, retrofitting of the EU building stocks could lead to 33% energy saving. 25 As such, the investment of part of the proceeds in the development of green buildings and in the renovation of residen tial, public and commercial buildings will help the EU and Spain to reduce the overall energy consumption and GHG emissions of the building sector and help achieve national climate targets. 13 EUR - Lex, « Directive (EU) 2018/2001 », at : https://eur - lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2018/2001/oj 14 Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan 2021 - 2030 (2020), at: https://ec.europa.eu/energy/sites/default/files/documents/es_final_necp_main_en.pdf 15 Our world in data, Spain CO2 country profile (2021), at: https://ourworldindata.org/co2/country/spain 16 Red Electrica De Espana , “ Renewables account for 43.6% of electricity generation in 2020, their highest share since records began ” (2020) , at: https://www.ree.es/en/press - office/news/press - release/2020/12/renewables - account - 43 - 6 - per - cent - electricity - generation - 2020 - their - highest - share - since - records - began 17 European Union, “ In focus: Energy efficiency in buildings ” (2020), at: https: //ec.europa.eu/info/news/focus - energy - efficiency - buildings - 2020 - feb - 17_en 18 “ Spain: Energy Profile ” (2020), at: https://www.odys see - mure.eu/publications/efficiency - trends - policies - profiles/spain - country - profile - english.pdf 19 European Commission, “Energy Performance of Buildings Directive (2010/31/EU)”, at: https://ec.europa.eu/energy/en/topics/energy - efficiency/energy - performance - of - buildings/energy - performance - buildings - directive 20 European Commission, “Energy Efficiency Directive (2012/27/EU)”, at: https://ec.europa.eu/energy/en/topics/energy - efficiency/ta rgets - directive - and - rules/energy - efficiency - directive 21 Odyssee - Mure, “Energy Efficiency Trends and Policies in the Household and Tertiary Sectors”, (2015), at: https://www.odyssee - mure.eu/publications/br/energy - efficiency - in - buildings.html 22 European Commission, “Energy performance of buildings”, (2019) at: https://ec.europa.eu/energy/en/topics/energy - efficiency/energy - performance - of - buildings/overview 23 The building standard NBE - CT - 79 on thermal conditions of buildings. 24 European Commission, “Energy performance of buildings”, (October 2019) at: https://ec.europa.eu/energy/en/topics/energy - efficiency/energy - performance - of - buildings/overview 25 Berardi, U, “ Building Energy Consumption in US, EU, and BRIC Countries” (2015) , Procedia Engineering, at: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705815020664,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 7 Alignment with/ contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Go als (SDGs) were set in September 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. The bond(s) issued under the Bankinter Green Bond Framework advances the following SDG ( s ) and target ( s ) : Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and clean energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Green Buildings 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management Conclusion Bankinter has developed the Bankinter Green Bond Framework under which it may issue green bonds and use the proceeds to finance loans for the acquisition and development of low - carbon buildings, renovation and refurbishment of buildings and renewable energy projects including wind and solar. Sustainalytics considers that the projec ts funded by the green bond proceeds are expected to generate positive environmental impact . The Bankinter Green Bond Framework outlines a process by which proceeds will be tracked, allocated, and managed, and commitments have be en made for reporting on the allocation and impact of the use of proceeds. Furthermore, Sustainalytics believes that the Bankinter Green Bond Framework is aligned with the overall sustainability strategy of the Bank and that the green use of procee d s categ or ies will contribute to the advancement of the UN Sustainable Development Goa ls 7 and 11. Additionally, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Bankinter has adequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible projects funded by the use of proceeds. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Bankinter S.A is well - positioned to issue green bon ds and that th e Bankinter Green Bond Framework is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018.,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 8 Append ices Append ix 1 : Green B ond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Bankinter S.A Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : Bankinter Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: July 07 , 2021 Publication date of review publication: Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBP: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review.,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 9 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible categories for the use of proceeds are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles. Sustainalytics considers that investments into renewable energy and green buildings will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals 7 and 11. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☒ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBP ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBP: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): Bankinter S.A’s internal process in evaluating and selecting loans and projects is managed by a Green Bond Committee. Projects will be pre - selected by the Investment Banking Department and Commercial Department and presented to the Green Bond Committee who evaluates the projects against eligibility criteria and makes the final decision. The Committee will meet at least twice a year to review project eligibility. Sustai nalytics views this process as aligned with market practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ O ther (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 10 Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Bankinter S.A’s processes for management of proceeds is is handled by the Green Bond Committee. Loans will be tracked by the committee and a register will be managed by the Treasury Department. Unallocated procee ds will be invested in green bonds of European issuers that are in line with the Bank’s investment guidelines. Sustainalytics views this process as aligned with market practice and positively highlights the temporary allocation of unallocated proceeds into green bonds. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): Bankinter S.A intends to report on allocation of proceeds on its website on an annual basis until full allocation. In addition, Bankinter S.A is committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics. Sustainalytics views Bankinter S.A’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Use of proceeds reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 11 Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): details of eligible projects, percentage of financing versus refinancing and the amount of unallocated proceeds Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☒ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Frequency ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☒ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☐ Other (please specify): ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) https://webcorporativa.bankinter.com/www2/corporativa/en/sostenibi lidad/Green_Bond_Framework SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 12 ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second - Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second - Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second - Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluatio n of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental cri teria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. A ssurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certificat ion: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or asse ssed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or anothe r benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 13 Disclaimer Copyright ©202 1 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalyt ics, or provided that appropriate citation and acknowledgement is ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project; (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice or a prospectus; (3) cannot be interpreted as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up - to - datene ss or fitness for a particular purpose. The information and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the informati on, data or opinions contained herein, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list of our third - party data providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/leg al - disclaimers . The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language ve rsion shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion Bankinter Green Bond Framework 14 About Sustainalytics , a Morningstar Company Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible invest ment strategies. The firm works with hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their investment processes. The world’s foremost issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, also rely on Sustainalytics for credible second - party opinions on green, social and sustainable bond frameworks. In 2020, Climate Bonds Initiative named Sustainalytics the “Largest Approved Verifier f or Certified Climate Bonds” for the third consecutive year. The firm was also recognized by Environmental Finance as the “Largest External Reviewer” in 2020 for the second consecutive year. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com .