1 Green Bond / Green Bond Programme External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Bank of China London Branch Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : Bank of China Limited Sustainability Series Management Statement Review provider’s name: Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP Completion date of this form: 28 May 2018 Publication date of review publication: 28 May 2018. The amount of nominated projects reviewed to be disclosed in an updated report after the settlement of the Green Bond. Section 2. Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☒ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Based on Ernst & Young’s (“EY”) procedures performed, a s described in the report as of 28 May 2018, nothing has come to EY’s attention that causes EY to believe that the bonds issuance process of the Bank of China London Branch ’s 2018 Green Bond, so far as the use and management of proceeds, Management’s project evaluation and selection and information disclosure and reporting are concerned, in all material respects, does not meet the criteria as set out in the Green Bond Principles (2017) and the Climate Bonds Standard (V2.1)’s pre-issuance requirement.,2 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Based on EY’s procedures performed, nothing has come to EY’s attention that causes EY to believe that the bonds issuance process of the Bank of China London Branch ’s 2018 Green Bond, so far as the use of proceeds is concerned, in all material respects, does not meet the criteria as set out in the Green Bond Principles (2017) and the Climate Bonds Standard (V2.1)’s pre -issuance requirement. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP : ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☒ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☒ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco-efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Based on EY’s procedures performed, nothing has come to EY’s attention that causes EY to believe that the bonds issuance process of the Bank of China London Branch ’s 2018 Green Bond, so far as project evaluation and selection is concerned, in all material respects, does not meet the criteria as set out in the Green Bond Principles (2017) and the Climate Bonds Standard (V2.1)’s pre -issuance requirement.,3 Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify) : 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Based on EY’s procedures performed, nothing has come to EY’s attention that causes EY to believe that the bonds issuance process of the Bank of China London Branch ’s 2018 Green Bond, so far as management of proceeds is concerned, in all material respects, does not meet the criteria as set out in the Green Bond Principles (2017) and the Climate Bonds S tandard (V2.1)’s pre -issuance requirement. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify): 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Based on EY’s procedures performed, nothing has come to EY’s attention that causes EY to believe that the bonds issuance process of the Bank of China London Branch ’s 2018 Green Bond, so far as reporting is,4 concerned, in all material respects, does not meet the criteria as set out in the Green Bond Principles (2017) and the Climate Bonds Standard (V2.1)’s pre -issuance requirement. Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond (s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ G reen B ond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify) : Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex-post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): ☒ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): After the Bank of China London Branch’s 2018 Green Bond is issued, an attestation report will be issued annually by EY to assure allocation of proceeds; the environmental impact disclosure will be reviewed by EY,5 Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer ’s documentation, etc.) http://www.boc.cn/en/investor/ir10/ Name of publication: Bank of China London Branch’s 2018 Green Bond Date of publication: 28 May 2018 SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion ) ☐ Certification ☒ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP 28 May 2018,6 ABOUT ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP (i) Consultant Review: An issuer can seek advice from consultants and/or institutions with recognized expertise in environmental sustainability or other aspects of the issuance of a Green Bond, such as the establishment/review of an issuer’s Green Bond framework. “Second opinions” may fall into this category. (ii) Verification: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework, or underlying assets independently verified by qualified parties, such as auditors. In contrast to certification, verification may focus on alignment with internal standards or claims made by the issuer. Evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. (iii) Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against an external green assessment standard. An assessment standard defines criteria, and alignment with such criteria is tested by qualified third parties / certifiers. (iv) Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework rated by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies. Green Bond ratings are separate from an issuer’s ESG rating as they typically apply to individual securities or Green Bond frameworks / programmes.