Green Evaluation Bazalgette Finance plc (Tideway) Transaction Overview In June 2017, Bazalgette Tunnel L t d . established its £10 billion , multicurrency bonds program. Proceeds are raised through its debt - financing platform Bazalgette Finance plc and used to design, build, commission , and maintain the Tham es Tideway Tunnel (TTT) in London, U . K . Our Green Evaluation applies to all bonds series issued under this program. Green Evaluation Overview Transaction’s Transparency  Use of proceeds reporting  Reporting comprehensiveness 88 Transaction’s Governance  Management of proceeds  Impact a ssessment s tructure 93 Mitigation 97 Sector → Net b enefit r anking    →  Hierarchy adjustment Water I ncreasing availability of fresh water Water Adaptation NA Entity: Bazalgette Finance plc ICB subsector: N.A . Location (HQ): U.K. Financing value: £10 billion Amount evaluated: 100% Evaluation date: Nov . 15 , 2017 Contact: Noemie de la Gorce +44 (0) 207 176 9836 noemie.delagorce@spglobal.co m 100 ► E1 Overall Score E1 / 95 Weighted aggregate of three (Transparency + Governance + Mitigation) E2 E3 0 E4,S&P Global Ratings | Green Evaluation 2 Project Description The construction of the TTT is part of the broader London Tideway Improvement s (LTI) plan. Th is plan includes the construction of the 25 kilometer (16 mile) TTT, the constr uction of the Lee Tunnel to connect the TTT to the Beckton wastewater treatment works , and the upgrade of five sewage treatment works : Mogden, Crossness, Beckton, Riverside , and Long Reach. The LTI plan is part of the U . K .’s efforts to comply with the 1991 EU Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive , of which it was found in breach by the European Court of Justice in 2012 . The plan aims to manage the amount of sewage discharged in the river Thames and the growth in water and sew erage demand associated with London ’s growing population, to 9.9 million by 20 30 and 10.9 million by 2050 from approximately 8.8 million people in 201 6 , according to the Greater London Authority . It was also designed to ensure the resilience of the infrastructure to changing weather patterns associated with climate change, in particular warmer and wetter winters th at are likely to result in more frequent combined sewer overflows (CSO s ) . The TTT is the component of the LTI plan delivered by Bazalgette Tunnel Ltd . The construction of the tunnel aims to increase sewage storage capacity and reduce the amount of CSOs discharged in to the Thames. The installation will capture 15.5 million c ubic meters of untreate d wastewater annually and reduce over 90% of the typical CSOs discharge in conjunction with the other infrastructure of the LTI plan . Wastewater will be redirected to the Beckton sewage treatment work s where it will be treated. Further more , 40% of the works’ power requirements will come from methane recovery. Our G reen E valuation includes the po sitive environmental impact from the increase of available fresh water in the tidal Thames from wastewater trea tment as well as carbon savings . Other positive environmental impacts of the TTT currently outside the scope of our Green Evaluation include reducing water pollution and supporting local biodiversity . Scoring Summary This transaction re ceived an overall score of 95 out of 100, equivalent to an E1, the highest Green Evaluation score on our scale ( E4 is the lowest ) . We determined the E1/95 score by taking a weighted aggregate of the subscores derived from our review of the project’s very strong T ransparency (88 ) and excellent G overnance (93 ) as well as an excellent environmental impact and resultant Mitigation score (97). The project’s favorable environmental impact in our view and its Tier 1 position at the top of our water sector hierarchy also contribute to the overall score. Rationale  The excellen t Governance score (93 ) reflects the pure play and regulated nature of Bazalgette Tunnel L td. as sole owner of the TTT . The company has been set up solely to “design, build, own, maintain , and finance” the TTT and operates under a specific regulatory frame work, which support s high scores for the management of proceeds and e valuation of the project’s environmental impact.  The very strong Transparency score (88 ) reflects the disclosure requ irements set by the regulators. This includes annual reporting on the project ’ s performance as well as comprehensive assessment o f the environmental impacts associated with the construction and operation al phases of the project.  The excellent Mitigation score (97) reflects our view that system enhancement projects such as this one increase the availability of fresh water in the tidal Thames for general purposes and do not result in a significant byproduct with a negative water impact.,S&P Global Ratings | Green Evaluation 3 Key Strengths And Weaknesses Proceeds of Bazalgette Finance bonds are allocated exclusively through Bazalgette Tunnel Ltd. to the TTT project. In our view, water - related mitigation projects focus on using water resources and networks more efficiently and improving the quality of water treatment for various end uses and the environment . The key environmental impact of Bazalgette Tunnel L t d.’s debt - financing program is improved water treatment compared with a baseline scenario. Importantly, the majority of projects in this sector incorpora te regional water stress, which is a relative measure of supply and demand for potable water uses. Wate r stress is different from scarcity and can be high in places that are wet but where demand is high, and it can be low in places that are dry but where there is little or no demand. We rank the water stress for London as high due to the city’s high populat ion density, exposure to changing weather patterns , and strict regulation on water withdrawals . This results in a n et b enefit r anking of 89. The medium - high carbon intensity of the U . K . also factors into our evaluation of the power generation component of the Beckton sewage treatment works , which is being supplied with wastewater by the TTT . These factors, when combined with the large systemwide nature of the project and its position at the top end of our water sustainabil ity hierarchy, results in a final Mitigation score of 97. The excellent Governance score reflects the pure play and regulated nature of Bazalgette Tunnel Ltd . The company operates under a specific regulatory framework define d by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, the Water Services Regulation Authority , and t he Environment Agency. Under this framework, proceeds raised by Bazalgette Finance are ring - fenced for the design, construction , and operation of the T TT, supporting a high score on the m anagement of proceeds. In addition, the development consent order (DCO) requires the company to monitor and measure the environ mental impacts of the project during the construction and operational phases on key indicators . These key indicators will reflect the project’s “ legacy commitment ” of reducing the amount of discharge and increasing the amount of treated wastewater in conjunction with the Lee Tunnel and th e Beckton Sewage Treatment works . The project’s per formance on these indicators will be overseen by the regulators as well as an independent technical assessor over the delivery phase of the project. The very strong Transparency score is also supported by the regulated nature of Bazalgette Tunnel L td . The company is required to disclose extensive information regarding the use of its proceeds given that it is only permitted to undertake the construction and operation of the tunnel . The company has also published an environmental statement describing the pro ject ’s expected environmental impact s , in accordance with the U . K . Infrastructure Planning Regulations 2009 , as well as an energy and carbon footprint report. These provide a detailed assessment of the water, waste, carbon , and energy impacts of the construction and operational phase s of the project . Bazalgette Tunnel Ltd. is committed to track ing and report ing the reduction of discharge over the delivery phase of the project , although the scope and format of this reporting are yet to be finalized . Project level scores Sector Location Technology Use of Proceeds ( GBP Mil.) Use of Proceeds T reatment Net Benefit Ranking Water London, U.K. Wastewater treatment with energy recovery 10,000 .00 Estimated 89 10,000 .00,S&P Global Ratings | Green Evaluation 4 Green Evaluation Process 88 93 97 Weighted aggregate of three (Transparency + Governance + Mitigation) E 1 / 95 Overall Score Transparency Governance Mitigation Technology B aseline water stress Net b enefit r anking → Water hierarchy adjustment Environmental i mpact s core → Proceeds ( £10,000 Mil .) London, U.K. Extremely High Low ImprovingWaterSustainability Recycling wastewater for water (agricultural uses) Recycling wastewater for water (other uses) Wastewater treatment with energy recovery 89 Increasing freshwater availability through system enhancements 97 10,000 Wastewater treatment with no energy recovery Unspecified Reducing water losses in the water distribution network Improving delivery of existing freshwater supplies Unspecified Water desalination to supply municipal water Increasing freshwater availability with significant negative environmental impact Unspecified Conservation measure in residential buildings Reducing demand on potable water supplies Conservation measure in commercial buildings Conservation measure in industrial buildings Smart metering in residential buildings Unspecified Scores may vary slightly from the actual due to rounding.,S&P Global Ratings | Green Evaluation 5 Transparency + Governance + Mitigation or Adaptation = Green Evaluation Common approach used amongst second opinion providers Unique to S&P Global Ratings Transparency  Use of proceeds reporting  Reporting comprehensiveness Governance  Management of proceeds  Impact a ssessment s tructure Mitigation Buildings, industrial efficiencies, energy infrastructure, transport, and water Adaptation Resilience capex such as flood defenses, asset protection etc. Net Benefit Ranking eKPIs: c arbon, w aste, w ater u se Cost Benefit Ranking Resilience benefit ratio: Estimate of reduction in damages if event occurs Hierarchy Applied Environmental Impact Resilience Level Mitigation Score Adaptation Score Final Green Evaluation (E1 - E4 or R1 - R4) eKPI – Environmental k ey p erformance i ndicator .,S&P Global Ratings | Green Evaluation 6 Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC or its affiliates (collectively, S&P) receives compensation for the provision of the Green Evaluation product (Product). S&P may also receive compensation for rating the transactions covered by the Product or for rating the issuer of the transactions covered by the Product. The purchaser of the Product may be the issuer or a third party. The Product is not a credit rating. The Product does not consider state or imply the likelihood of completion of any projects covered by a given financing, or the completion of a proposed financing. The Product provides a relative ranking evaluation of the estimated environmental benefit of a given fina ncing. The Product is a point in time assessment reflecting the information available at the time that the Product was created and published. S&P's credit ratings, opinions, analyses, rating acknowledgment decisions, any views reflected in the Product and the output of the Product are not investment advice, recommendations regarding credit decisions, recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any investme nt decisions, an offer to buy or sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any security, endorseme nts of the suitability of any security, endorsements of the accuracy of any data or conclusions provided in the Product, or independent verification of any information relied upon in the credit rating process. The Product and any associated prese ntations d o not take into account any user’s financial objectives, financial situation, needs or means, and should not be relied upon by users for making any investment decisions. The output of the Product is not a substitute for a user’s independent judgment and ex pertise. The output of the Product is not professional financial, tax or legal advice, and users should obtain independent, p rofessional advice as it is determined necessary by users. While S&P has obtained information from sources it believes to be relia ble, S&P does not perform an audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of any information it receives. S&P and any third - party providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Product. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwis e), regardless of the cause, for reliance of use of information in the P roduct, or for the security or maintenance of any information transmitted via the Internet, or for the accuracy of the inform ation in the Product. The Product is provided on an “AS IS” basis. S&P PARTIES MAKE NO REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLI ED, INCLUDED BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE ACCURACY, RESULTS, TIMLINESS, COMPLETENESS, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCT, OR FOR T HE SECURITY OF THE WEBSITE FROM WHICH THE PRODUCT IS ACCESSED. S&P Parties have no r esponsibility to maintain or update the Product or to supply any corrections, updates or releases in connection therewith. S&P Parties have no liability for the accuracy, timeliness, reliability, perform ance, continued availability, completeness or delays, omissions, or interruptions in the delivery of the Product. To the extent permitted by law, in no event shall the S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental , exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damag es, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence, loss of data, cost of substitute materials, cost of capital, or claims of any third party) in conne ction with any use of the Product even if advised of the possibility of such damages. S&P maintains a separation between commercial and analytic activities. S&P keeps certain activities of its business units sep arate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result, certain bu siness units of S&P may have information that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic information received in connecti on with each analytical process. Copyright 2017 © by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved. spglobal.com/ratings