© Sustainalytics 2018 Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Brookfield Renewable Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Princ iples 201 8 . This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categories for the use of proceeds – renewable energy generation and energy efficiency & management – are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples 2018 . S ustainalytics considers that clean energy projects will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals . Brookfield Renewable ’s Capital Markets and Treasury team, with advice from internal stakeholders, will conduct the project selection process. Large hydropower projects (>25MW) that are not run - of - river are subject to external review. Sustainalytics considers this to be in line with market practice. Brook field Renewable will deposit the net proceeds in its general account, and track allocation via a green bonds register. This is in line with market practice. Brookfield Renewable intends to report on the allocation of proceeds o n an annual basi s. In addition, key performance indicators such as energy generated and capacity installed will be reported where feasible . R eporting on these metrics is in line with market practice. Evaluation date September 6 , 2018 Issuer Locati o n Toronto, Canada Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ .................. 7 For inquires , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Marion Oliver (Toronto) Project Manager marion.oliver@sustainalytics.com (+1) 647 317 3644 Zach Marg olis (Toronto) Project Support zach.margolis@sustainalytics.com (+1) 647 695 4341 Ian Howard ( Toronto ) Client Relations susfinance.americas @sustainalytics.com (+1) 646 518 9623,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 2 Introduction Brookfield Asset Management is a global asset management firm, with approximately $285 billion worth of assets under management, in the areas or real estate, infrastructure, renewable power, and private equity. Br ookfield Renewable Partners L.P. (“Brookfield Renewable”) , a publicly listed subsidiary of Brookfiel d Asset Management, is one of the world’s largest independent power producers, operating 840 electrical generation facilities with a total installed capacity of 17,400 megawatts in North America, Latin America, Europe , and Asia . Brookfield Renewable (the “Issuer”, or the “Company”) has developed the Brookfield Renewable Green Bond Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it is planning to issue green bond s and use the proceeds to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, e xisting and future projects relat ed to environmentally sustainable energy. The Framework defines eligible categories in the following areas:  Renewable Energy Generation o Solar Energy o Wind Energy o Hydroelectricity, from small and run - of - river hydro projects , as well from large (>25MW) or pu mped - storage projects that have undergone a risk assessment reviewed by a reputable third - party o Biomass energy, with feedstocks such as forestry and agricultural wastes  Energy Efficiency and Management o Industrial Efficiency o Eco - efficiency products or pro cesses o Energy storage Brookfield Renewable engaged Sustainalytics to review the Brookfield Renewable Green Bond Framework and provide a second - party opinion on the alignment of the green bond with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (the “GBP”), as administer ed by the International Capital Market Association (the “ICMA”) , 1 and the framework’s environmental credentials. This framework has been published in a separate document , which can be found on Brookfield Renewable’s website . 2 As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Brookfield Renewable ’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Issuer’s green bond. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Brookfield Renewable Green Bond Framework and should be read in conjunction with that framework . 1 ICMA’s Green Bond Principles 2018 https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ 2 https://bep.brookfield.com/en/events - and - presentations,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 3 Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Brookfield Renewable Green Bond Framework Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Bro okfield Renewable Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of Brookfield Renewable ’s framework :  The eligible use of proceeds categories – renewable energy generation and energy efficiency & management – are recogni zed by the Green Bond Principles as project categories having positive environmental benefits. For additional information on Sustainalytics assessment of the environmental impacts , please see Section 3. o The framework contemplates the inclusion of various r enewable energy technologies which have clear environmental benefits , including both small and run - of - river hydropower projects, as well as large (>25MW) and pumped storage hydropow er projects, wind power, solar power, and biomass generation. o Sustainalytic s recognizes that , although there are significant environmental benefits to hydroelectric development, especially for its potential to displace carbon - emitting power generation, some projects may pose an increased risk of negative environmental and social impacts. In particular, large hydro in tropical regions faces various risks due to environmental, social, and regulatory challenges . To address these concerns, Brookfield Renewable has included a clause within its framework requ iring that the construction of large (>25MW) hydropower projects, except for run - of - river facilities, undergo a risk assessment that will be reviewed by a reputable third party. This assessment will include consideration of the size, location, carbon intensity, and other risks , infor med by international best practice . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that this review will support effective risk mitigation and prevent green bond proceeds from being directed to projects with substantial negative impacts. o The eligibility criteria for Bi omass Energy stipulate that feedstock for biomass power generation will be procured only from sources that do not deplete terrestrial carbon pools, and specifically references agricultural and forestry residues. Sustainalytics views this addition positivel y and considers it to strengthen the framework. o The framework allows for the financing of acquisition s of various renewable energy generation projects . Due to the highly impactful nature of renewable energy in the context of climate action, as well as the long life - span of these assets, in particular hydroelectricity, Sustainalytics views acquisitions as having positive impacts. o The framework allows for proceeds to be directed to refu rbishment, maintenance, and modernization of existing renewable energy a ssets. Sustainalytics considers these investments to provide greater environmental benefits as they support increased lifespan and/or improved performance fo r existing generating projects.  The project selection process will be overseen by Brookfield Renewa ble ’s Cap ital Markets and Treasury team , which will consult with internal stakeholders including the sustainability team. Criteria evaluated will include Environmental, Social, and Governance ( ESG ) risks, market factors, and technical considerations. o The construction of hydroelectric projects larger than 25 MW in capacity will be subject to additional assessment before being deemed eligible to receive green bond funds, including external review. o Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with mar ket practice.  The net proceeds of the green bond will be deposited and held in Brookfield Renewable ’s general account until allocation. A Green Bond Register will be used to track allocation of funds to eligible projects. o Sustainalytics considers this pro cess to be in line with market practice.  Brookfield Renewable has committed to allocation reporting, on an annual basis, and impact reporting where feasible.,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 4 o Allocation reporting will be published on the C ompany website or in financial statements until a ll proceeds are allocated, and will include amounts allocated and the balance of unallocated proceeds. Where feasible, reporting will also include a break - down of allocations at the category level, as well as descriptions of sample projects that are financ ed from green bond revenues. Sustainalytics encourages Brookfield Renewable to obtain an independent external review on its allocation reporting to provide an additional layer of assurance on the projects being financed. o Impact reporting will include qua ntitative and qualitative indicators, such as installed capacity, energy produced, and greenhouse gas emissions avoided. o Sustainalytics considers reporting on these items as market practice. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determined that the Brookfield Renewable Green Bond Framework aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 1 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustai nability Performance of the Issuer Contribution of framework to Brookfield’s sustainability strategy Sustainalytics is of the opinion that, as a developer and operator of renewable energy projects, Brookfield Renewable ’s overall business model is suppor tive of positive environmental outcomes. Furthermore, Brookfield Asset Management, which controls Brookfield Renewable, has developed a sustainability strategy stati ng that the C ompany “strive[s] to be a leader in sustainable development”, and goes on to d etail that they “take a holistic approach to sustainability, which means we consider both the social and environmental impacts of our operations”. 3 Brookfield Asset Management ’s Corporate Social Responsibility approach is based on four key principles: “ens uring the well - being and safety of employees”, to “be good stewards in the communities in which we operate”, “mitigate the impact of our operations on the environment”, and “conduct business a cco rding to the h ighest ethical and legal/regulatory s tandards ”. 4 Considering the above, and that as a renewable energy pure - play the Company is contributing significantly to low - carbon energy, Sustainalytics is confident that the Framework advances Brookfield Asset Management ’s sustainability goals and strategy . Wel l positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects Although renewable energy provides positive environmental benefits, there exists environmental and social risks which may be encountered during the development and operation of these projects. These risks may include impacts on local communities, impacts on fish and wildlife, air/water/soil pollution from construction, worker health and safety, and greenhouse gas emissions from reservoirs. Brookfield Renewable has pr ocesses and policies in place to help mitigate these risks, such as:  An environmental approach which states that the C ompany is “ committed to understanding, minimizing, and managing the potential environmental impacts and safety hazards associated with our operations and activities ”. 5  Brookfield Asset Management’s ESG policy, to which Brookfield Renewable is subject, which emphasizes “c onsidering ESG at e a ch stage of the i nvestment management p rocess . ”  A commitment to respect all relevant environmental and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which projects are located.  A Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, 6 which stipulates that all employees should “k now and comply with all laws, rules, and regulations applicable . ”  E ngagement with the followin g third - party organizations: o The International Hydropower Association, 7 a worldwide organization, established with the support of UNESCO, with the goal of advancing sustainable development of hydropower. 3 https://renewableops.brookfield.com/en/sustainability/overview 4 https://www.brookfield.com/en/businesses/renewable - power/corporate - social - responsibility 5 https://renewableops. brookfield.com/en/sustainability/overview 6 https://bep.brookfield.com/~/media/Files/B/Brookfield - BEP - IR/governance - documents/bep - code - of - business - conduct - may - 2018 - english - v2.pdf 7 https://www.hydropower.org/our - vision,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 5 Brookfield Renewable is a gold corporate member, ind icating the level of importance ascribed to this association. o The EcoLogo - certifi cation, 8 an ISO - accredited standard offered by the Underwriters Laboratory. 22 Brookfield Renewable projects in North America have achieved this certification. o The Low Impact Hydropower Institute, 9 which has certified 55 hydroelectricity projects operated by Brookfield Renewable in the United States . This program recognizes dams that are minimizing environmental impacts over several dimensions.  A stated goal of zero high - risk s afety incidents or lost - time injuries , which is tracked and reported upon . 10 Considering the above, and the commitment to external review of the construction of new large hydropower projects, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Brookfield Renewable is w ell - positioned to address and mitigate common environmental and social risks associated with the developme nt of renewable energy projects, and well - placed to issue green bonds. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds The two use of proceeds categories are r ecognized as impactful by the G reen B ond P rinciples 2018 . Renewable Energy’s Contribution to Achieving Climate Goals In order to achieve the commitments of the Paris Agreement, to limit global average temperature increases to well below 2°C and aim to li mit the increase to 1.5°C , drastic decreases to global emissions will be required. 11 Considering that, according to data from the World Bank, greenhouse gas emissions from electricity and heat production make up 49% of all fuel combustion, 12 increasing the s hare of renewable energy generation has the potential to have significant impact on meeting climate goals. A study from the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the International Renewable Energy agency (IRENA) supports this assessment, estimating that 65 - 70% if worldwide primary energy demand would need to be met by low - carbon energy sources by 2050 in order to meet the 2°C target. 13 Although in 2017, renewable energy grew more rapidly than other forms of generation, meeting a quarter of the global demand growth, 14 this rate of deployment must be ramped up to meet international targets. As one of the world’s largest independent owners and operators of renewable generation assets, with approximately 17,400 MW of capacity in 25 markets worldwide, Brookfield R enewable has a significant role to play in the expansion of clean energy. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the use of proceeds of Brookfield Renewable ’s g reen b ond s will contribute to increased low - carbon electrical generation overall, supporting glob al climate goals. Alignment with and contribution to the UN S ustainable D evelopment G oals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. This green bond advan ces the following SDG goals and targets: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy Generation 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Energy Efficiency and Management 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency 8 https://services.ul.com/service/eco logo - certification/ 9 https://lowimpacthydro.org/low - impact - criteria/ 10 https://renewableops.brookfield.com/en/sustainability/overview 11 https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/international/negotiations/paris_en 12 https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EN.CO2.E TOT.ZS 13 http://www.irena.org//media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2017/Mar/Perspectives_for_the_Energy_Transition_2017.pdf?la=en&has h=56436956B 74DBD22A9C6309ED76E3924A879D0C7 14 https://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/GECO2017.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 6 Conclusion Brookfield Renewable has developed a framework under which it will issue green bonds, with the proceeds being directed to elig ible renewable energy and energy efficiency and management projects. Renewable energy projects may include wind, solar, hydroelectric, and biomass generation, while energy efficiency projects may include industrial efficiency, eco - efficient technologies, a nd energy storage. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the assets describe d by the framework will support Brookfield Renewable’s core business of green power and will deliver positive environmental impacts. All use of proceeds categories specified in th e framework are aligned with those of the Green Bond Principles 2018; Brookfield Renewable has designated an internal team to oversee its green bond program; transparent procedures have been put in place for the management and tracking of funds; and commit ments have been made to report on allocation and impacts. Furthermore, Sustainalytics believes that the initiatives funded by the green bond s will contribute to the advancement of UN Sustainable Development Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy. Based on th e above, Sustainalytics is confident that Brookfield Renewable is well - positioned to issue green bonds, and that the Brookfield Renewable Green Bond Framework is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2018.,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 7 Appendices Ap pendix 1 : Green Bond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Brookfield Renewable Partners LP Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] Brookfield Renewable Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: September 6 , 2018 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an update and add reference to earlier relevant review] Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : No te: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to Executive Summary above.,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 8 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible categories for the use of proceeds, rene wable energy generation and energy efficiency & management, are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles. Sustainalytics considers that clean energy projects will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Devel opment Goals. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☒ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustai nable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable ): Brookfield Renewable ’s Capital Markets and Treasury team, with advice from internal stakeholders, will conduct the project selection process. Large hydropower projects (>25MW) , other than run - of - river facilities, are subject to external review. Sustain alytics considers this to be in line with market practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 9 ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented proce ss to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Sele ction criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☒ Other (please specify): Large hydro subject to external review 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Brookfield Renewable will deposi t the net proceeds in its general account, and track allocation via a green bonds register. This is in line with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☐ Disclosure o f intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☐ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to indivi dual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): Brookfield Renewable intends to report o n the allocation proceeds on an annual basis. In addition, key performance indicators such as energy generated and capacity installed will be reported where feasible. Reporting on these metrics is in line with market practice.,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 10 Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Energy generated, capacity installed Means of Disclosure ☒ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☒ Information published in ad hoc documents ☐ Other (please specify): ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.),Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 11 SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF AP PROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second Party Opinion : An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as informatio n barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issu er’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independe nt verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the en vironmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceed s, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external gr een standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An i ssuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless ref lect material environmental risks. v.,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 12 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 2018. All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights to this Second - Party Opinion (the “Opinion”) are vested exclusively in Sustainalytics. Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writi ng by Sustainalytics, n o part of this Opinion may be reproduced, disseminated, comingled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made available to third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form o r in any manner, be it electronically, mechanically, through photocopies or recordings , nor publicly released without the “Green Bond Framework” in conjunction with which this Opinion has been developed. The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to provide objective information on why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and responsible, and is intended for investors in general, and not for a specific investor in particular. Consequently, this Opinion i s for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, t he information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics does not warrant that the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibility for errors or o missions. Any reference to third party names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warra nty, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. Furthermore, nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as an investment advice (as defined in the applicable jurisdi ction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensu ring its commitments’ compliance, implementation and monitoring.,Second - Party Opinion Brookfield Renewable Green Bond 13 Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm that support investors around the world with the development and imp lementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with institutional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 countries, the world’s leading issuers, fr om multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for second - party opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds Standard Board as a verifier organizat ion, and supports various stakeholders in the development and verification of their frameworks. Global Capital named Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider in 2017. In 2018, the firm was recognized as the “Largest External Review er” by the Climate Bonds Initiative as well as Environmental Finance. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special Mention Sustainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan for its contribution to the growth of the Japanese Green Bond Market. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com