© Sustainalytics 201 9 Second - Party Opinion ESB G reen Bond Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that th e ESB Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . This assessment is bas ed on the following: The eligible categor ies for the use of proceeds (Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Clean Transportation and Green Buildings) are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples. Sustainalytics consider s that green projects in the areas of renewable energy , low carbon transport and green buildings to have positive environmental impacts and to advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals . ESB has established a dedicated G reen Finance Committee, including the Head of ESB’s Treasury, Sustainability and Strategy Areas and representatives from ESB’s Business Units, which will ensure compliance with the Green Bond Framework and oversee the totality of the issuance process. The Green Finance Committee is responsible for reviewing the proposed projects with respect to the Eligibility Criteria and ensuring that the requirements of ESB’s environmental risk management procedures have been applied to selected projects . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that this process is in line with market standards. ESB will set up a register and internal controls to monitor and track the net proceeds allocat e d to Eligible Projects. ESB will allocate an amount equal to the g reen b ond net proceeds towards e ligible g reen projects. The company will also strive to reach full allocation to e ligible p rojects within two years of the Green Bond issuance. Sustainalytics considers this process to be in accordance with market practice. ESB commits to producing , at least annually , an a llocation and i mpact report either as a stand alone dedicated report or integrated into ESB’s existing annual sustainability report, which will be made available via the company’s website . Sust ainalytics views the scope of reporting on both allocation and impact to be adequate and considers ESB’s approach to reporting to be in accordance with market practice. Evaluation date 6 May 2019 Issuer Locatio n Dublin, Ireland Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ .................. 9 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Joshua Zakkai (Amsterdam) Project Manager joshua.zakkai@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 00 79 Jean - Claude Berthelot (Amsterdam) Client Relations jean - cl aude.berthelot @sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 00 15,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 2 Introduction Electricity Supply Board (“ESB” or the “company”) is a n integrated energy compa ny that engages in the production, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity in the Republic o f Ireland, Northern Ireland and other parts of the UK . The company produces energy through different sources, including both fossil fuel sources and renewables. Moreover, ESB has expanded its business activities to new areas, including the installation of electric vehicle public charging points and providing telecommunication services for mobile and wireless operators. The Government of Ireland owns 95% of ESB. ESB h as developed the ESB Green Bond Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it is considering t he issu ance of multiple green bond s with the intention of us ing the proceeds to finance/refinance , in whole or in part, existing and future projects that will provide a positive environmental impact, such as mitigating and reducing GHG emissions and genera ting renewable energ y. The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in four a reas: 1. Renewable Energy 2. Energy Efficiency 3. Clean Transportation 4. Green Buildings ESB e ngaged Sustainalytics to review the ESB Green Bond Framework , dated 29 April 2019, and provide a second - party opinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) . 1 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 2 As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of ESB’s m anagement team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of ESB’s green bond. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant pu blic documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the ESB Green Bond Framework and should be read in conjunction with th at F ramework. 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Associati on and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ 2 The ESB Green Bond Framework is available on ESB ’s website at: www.esb.ie /ir,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 3 Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on th e ESB Green Bond Framework Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion tha t the ESB Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of ESB’s gre en bond framework :  Use of proceeds: - The four use s of proceeds (Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Clean Transportation and Green Buildings) are recognized as impactful by the GBP 2018. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the eligible projects in these categories will provide meaningful environmental contributions and will support its host countries (Ireland and UK) in transition ing towards a low carbon economy. - Regarding green buildings, ESB specifies that it will limit financ ing to buildings certified by Green Buildings Schemes such as LEED (gold or above) and BREEAM (very good or above). Sustainalytics has conducted an evaluation of the noted certifications and considers them to be credible and impactful (refer to Appendix 1 for Sustainalytics assessm ent of green building standards). - Sustainalytics notes that ESB intends to finance upgrades to its power transmission infrastructure that will facilitate energy efficiency improvements. Sustainalytics considers activities to reduce transmission losses fro m the electricity grid to be impactful . Regarding impact reporting on energy efficiency improvements in the transmission infrastructure, ESB has defined impact metrics at the project portfolio level . However, Sustainalytics positively notes that ESB confir med its intention to report to the extent possible on the level of efficiency achieved for projects considered to be above EUR 5 mil lion in CAPEX . - With regards to energy efficiency investments, Sustainalytics further notes that the Framework includes proj ects related to improving the energy efficiency of ESB’s commercial buildings. ESB’s investments in this area are targeted at displacing fossil fuel based technologies with zero and low carbon alternatives, as well as other technology to improve buildings’ energy performance. Sustainalytics highlights that ESB’s framework defines eligible projects as those that achieve an improvement of energy efficiency of at least 50% against the baseline, a significant improvement. - Sustainalytics highlights ESB’s exclus ionary criteria that exclude financing of electricity generation project s that rely wholly or partly on fossil fuels or nuclear power . - ESB will finance and refinance projects that fall into a lookback period of 24 months and the company commits to full al location within two years of issuance , which is in line with market practice.  Project Evaluation and Selection - ESB has established a dedicated Green Finance Committee, including the Head of ESB’s Treasury, Sustainability and Strategy Areas and representati ves from ESB’s Business Units. The Green Finance Committee will be responsible for reviewing the proposed projects and ensuring compliance with the e ligibility c riteria outlined in the framework. It is particularly notable that proposed projects will be su bject to ESB’s environmental risk management procedures (see section 2) . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that this process is in line with market practice .  Management of Proceeds - ESB will set up a register and internal controls to monitor and track the al location of net proceeds to e ligible p rojects. ESB will allocate an amount equal to the Green Bond net proceeds towards Eligible Green projects . I f during the lifetime of the g reen b ond, the Eligible Projects are sold, become ineligible or are otherwise de termined to be incompatible with the environmental objectives of the framework, ESB will re - allocate proceeds to projects that comply with the Framework . Sustainalytics considers this process to be in accordance with market practice.  Reporting - In line wi th market practice, ESB commits to making available on its website, at least annually , either a standalone a llocation and i mpact report or allocation and impact reporting that is integrated into ESB’s annual sustainability repor t. With regards to allocatio n metrics , ESB will report on allocated proceeds, the absolute value of proceeds dedicated to new financing and refinancing and unallocated proceeds . The Impact report will contain information related to Eligible projects, such as,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 4 installed renewable energ y capacity (MW), expected annual renewable energy generation (MWh), number of smart meters installed, number of EV charging points installed or upgraded and annual energy savings (MWh). Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determin ed that ESB’s g reen b ond aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 2 : Green Bond /Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of ESB Contributi on of framework to ESB ’s sustainabilit y strategy S ustainability and corporate social responsibility are embedded across ESB’s operations. 3 Notably, ESB ’s strategic business priorities integrate the company’s efforts to support the transition to a low carb on economy in Ireland and the United Kingdom . 4 From a governance perspective, t he b oard of directors Committee on Health Safety and Environment is responsible for oversee ing the implementation of sustainability strategies across the company. Furthermore, a t the management level, the Environment and Sustainability Committee, which is chaired by the Executive Director Group People and Organisational Development, has accountability for approving environmental and sustainab i l ity programmes. 5 Within its ESB Gro up Policy Statement on Environmental Management and Sustainability, 6 ESB commits to environmental management and sustainability in all aspects of its operations and business activities, and leadership in carbon management and energy efficiency. Additionall y, ESB’s Strategy to 2030 commits the company to producing, connecting and delivering clean, secure and affordable energy to its markets (Ireland, UK and Northern Ireland). 7 Overall, ESB’s sustainability strategy focuses on transitioning towards a low carb on energy supply, based on the decarbonisation of the electricity system and heating in homes and workplaces, as well as supporting the electrif ication of Ireland’s vehicle fleet . 8 As a commercial semi - state owned entity, ESB is required by Irish legislat ion to deliver a 33% reduction in its Total Primary Energy Requirement 9 by 2020 (compared to 2006 levels). 10 The company is also committed to generating 40% of its power from renewable sources with a carbon intensity reduction of 50% by 2030 and transitioni ng to fully carbon - free energy supply by 2050 . 11 In terms of renewable installed capacity, the company strives to reach 5 GW of installed renewable capacity in Ireland and 2 GW in Northern Ireland by 2030 . 12 During 2017, ESB’s energy efficiency schemes hav e delivered 196 GWh of energy savings for customers , and , in the same year, the company produced a total of 17.15 TWh of renewable energy . 13 Furthermore, ESB achieved a 31.6% energy savings against its baseline in its own operations by the end of 2017, on t rack to meet its 2020 energy saving goal of 33% . 14 Over the course of 2018, ESB ’s subsidiary, Northern Ireland Electricity Networks , connect ed multiple sources of renewable energy to its power network , including 179 3 ESB, “ESB Annual report 2018”, (2019), at: https:// esb.ie/docs/default - source/investor - relations - documents/annual - report - 2018 - full - report - (interactive - version).pdf?sfvrsn=d28304f0_2 . 4 ESB, “Sustainability in ESB”, at: https://www. esb.ie/acting - responsibly/sustainability - in - esb . 5 ESB, “ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, (2018), at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainabilit y/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 . 6 ESB, “ ESB Group Policy Statement on Environmental Management and Sustainability”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - sou rce/default - document - library/group - policy - here . 7 ESB, “ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, (2018), at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability /esb - sustainability - report - 2017 . 8 ESB, “Ireland’s low carbon future - Dimensions of a solution”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/defa ult - source/default - document - library/dimensions - of - a - solution.pdf?sfvrsn=a9e93bf0_4 . 9 The total amount of energy required in order to provide power sufficient to meet demand. 10 ESB, “ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, (2018), at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 . 11 ESB, “ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, (2018), at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 . 12 ESB, “ESB Annual report 2018”, (2019), at: https://esb.ie/docs/default - source/investor - relations - documents/annual - report - 2018 - full - report - (interactive - version).pdf?sfvrsn=d28304f0_2 . 13 ESB, “ESB Sustainabilit y Report 2017”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 . 14 ESB, “ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 .,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 5 large - scale wind farms, 24 small - scale re newable generation projects and several hundred micro - generation projects, which produced approximately 1.65 GW. Moreover, ESB also disclosed that in 2018 the renewable energy share of its total energy mix was 14%, corresponding to 4 GW of renewables insta lled capacity in Ireland and 1.6 GW in Northern Ireland. In 2018, ESB also was a founding member of Leaders Group on Sustainability, a Business In The Community Ireland (BITCI) led group of organizations committed to the Low Carbon Pledge, representing the first public commitment generated by Iris h business es to promote the transition towards a sustainable economy. Given ESB’s sustainability vision, strategy, commitments and policies, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the eligible green projects will c ontribute towards furthering ESB’s sustainability strategy and its transition towards carbon free energy generation and that ESB is well positioned to issue green bonds. Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While Sustainalytics recognizes that the use of proceeds outlined in the ESB Green Bond Framework will be directed towards eligible investments that are recognized as impactful by the GBP 2018, Sustainalytics is acknowledges that the eligible p rojects also have environmental and social risks . Some key environmental and social risks associated with the use of p roceeds relate to workers’ health and safety in the construction and maintenance of renewable energy projects and transmission infrastruct ure , impacts on biodiversity and the environment generally as well as community relation challenges associated with large infrastructure projects . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that ESB is well positioned to mitigate related risks through the following policies, systems and processes:  The ESB Health and Safety Policy 15 , Environment and Sustainability Policy 5 and ESB Group Safety Policy 16 commits the company to providing a safe working environment and causing zero harm to employees, contractors, clients, partners and members of the public who may be affected by its operations . These policies stipulate processes aimed at ensuring workers health and safety during construction. Moreover, the company’s business units maintain safety management systems in plac e that are externally certified to the OHSAS 18001:2007 standard , which Sustainaly t ics regards as a robust standard . 17 Furthermore, ESB procedures require that all staff and contractor injuries resulting in an absence of more than one day from work are rep orted to the CEO within 24 hours ahead of the follow - up investigation by local manage ment. 18 T he company analyses all injuries and near - misses to better develop prevention mechanisms of such incidents in the future. 19  ES B commits to sustainable management o f the environment in its ESB Group Policy Statement on Environmental Management and Sustainability. 20 ESB also implements the ESB Biodiversity Policy, ESB Sustainability Objectives and Group Environmental Standards as well as b usiness u nit e nvironmental p ol icies, e nvironmental m anagement s ystems and p lans . 21 In this regard, ESB ’s business units operate environmental management systems that are externally certified to ISO 14001. 22 All proposed projects and structural changes are assessed at the planning stage to determine whether a Natura 2000 Impact Assessment and new e nvironmental i mpact a ssessment are required. 23 Furthermore, biodiversity 15 ESB, “ESB Health & Safety Policies and Performance”, at: https://www.esb.ie/acting - responsibly/staying - safe/esbs - health - safety - policy - and - performance . 16 ESB, “ESB Group Safety Policy”, (2014) at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/default - document - library/keeping - safe/esb - group - policy - and - framework - safety - statement . 17 ESB, “ ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 . 18 ESB, “ESB Health & Safety Poli cies and Performance”, at: https://www.esb.ie/acting - responsibly/staying - safe/esbs - health - safety - policy - and - performance . 19 ESB, “ESB Health & Safet y Policies and Performance”, at: https://www.esb.ie/acting - responsibly/staying - safe/esbs - health - safety - policy - and - performance . 20 ESB, “ESB Group Po licy Statement on Environmental Management and Sustainability”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/default - document - library/group - policy - here . 21 ESB, “ESB Group Policy Statement on Environmental Management and Sustainability”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/default - document - library/group - policy - here . 22 ESB, “Environmental Information”, at: https://www.esb.ie/acting - responsibly/environmental - information . 23 ESB, “ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 .,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 6 impacts are taken into account where existing or new assets are planned within close proximity of conservation areas esta blished by the EU Birds and Habitats Directives. 24  In order to develop infrastructure, in addition to e nvironmental i mpact a ssessments, ESB commits to providing a community needs assessment as part of a broader regulatory engagement process. 25 ESB confirmed to Sustainalytics that the community needs assessment takes place at the pre - planning stage for proposed infrastructure projects, and involves a mul t i - stak e holder approach through which concerns are identified and addressed during the planning process. Fu rthermore, the company maintains stakeholder engagement plans throughout the life of each project. ESB also contributes to the development of essential infrastructure and services for the local community in which its wind farms operate through the Wind Far m Community Fund. 26 Based on ESB’ policies , programmes and procedures, Sustainalytics considers ESB to be well - positioned to mitigate the environmental and social risks associated with the projects funded by green bond proceeds. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds Al l four use of proceeds categories are recognized as impactful by the GBP. Sustainalytics has focused below o n the impact in the local context. Relevance of Renewable Energy for Ireland ’s transition to a low carbon econom y As part of the EU, Ireland set a target for 16% of its Gross Final Energy Consumption to be derived from renewable sources by 2020, 27 which entails achieving 40% renewable electricity production , 12% renewable heat production and 10% clean transport ation by 2020. 28 Moreove r, in April 2019, Ireland revised its renewable electricity goal from 55% to 70% of total electricity supply by 2030 . 29 As of 2017 only 30.1 % of the country’s electricity was generated from renewable sources . 30 Furthermore, according to the Sustainable Energ y Authority of Ireland (S E AI), the state is facing several challenges in lowering the consumption of fossil fuels for transportation, heating and electricity production. 31 Given the context, Sustainalytics favourably views ESB’s investments into renewable energy projects (wind and solar) and power transmission infrastructure , especially in the Irish context where significant investments are required to bridge the gap between current electricity production and targets. The Importance of Energy Efficiency, Green Buildings and Clean Transportation for Ireland and the UK’s climate goals In accordance with the Paris Climate Agreement and Kyoto Protocol, the EU has set up goals for its member states in terms of energy efficiency and GHG emissions reduction s in all sectors of the economy, such as energy generation, buildings and transportation. 32 Two of Ireland’s climate change targets are to reach a 20% reduction of non - ETS (Emissions Trading Scheme) emissions by 2020, 33 and 30% by 2030 (based on 2005 24 ESB, “ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 . 25 ESB, “ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 . 26 ESB, “ESB Sustainability Report 2017”, at: https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainability/esb - sustainability - report - 2017 . 27 European Commission, “The Environment”, (2019), at: https://ec.europa.eu/ireland/news/key - eu - policy - areas/environment_en . 28 Irish Department of Communications, Climate Action & Environment, “Renewable Energy Target 2020”, at: https://www.dccae.gov.ie/en - ie/energy/topics/Renewable - Energy/decarbonisation/Pages/2020 - Landing - Page.aspx . 29 Out - Law.com, “Ireland sets new renewable energy targets”, (2019), at: https://www.out - law.com/en/articles/2019/april/ireland - 70 - renewable - energy - target/ . 30 Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland, “Energy in Ireland 2018 Report” (2018), at: https://www.seai.ie/resources/publications/Energy - in - Ireland - 2018.pdf . 31 European Commission, “The Environment”, (2019), at: https://ec.europa.eu/ireland/news/key - eu - policy - areas/environment_en . 32 European Commission, “EU climate action”, at: https://ec.europa.eu/clima/citizens/eu_en . 33 Irish Depa rtment of Communications, Climate Action & Environment, “EU Emissions Targets”, at: https://www.dccae.gov.ie/en - ie/cl imate - action/topics/eu - and - international - climate - action/2020 - eu - targets/pages/default.aspx .,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 7 levels ) . 34 T he U nited K ingdom, ESB’s other market , aims to cut GHG emissions by at least 32% by 2020 (2010 baseline) 35 and 80% by 2050, compared to 1990 levels. 36 I n 2013, the energy consumption from the transportation sector account ed for 33% of total energy use in Ireland 37 and 26% of total GHG emissions in the UK in 2018 . 38 In order to reduce the share of emissions from the transport sector, the Irish government developed the National Policy Framework on Alternative Fuels Infrastructure for Transport in Ireland 2017 to 2030, which commits the state to have all new cars and vans sold in Ireland emit zero emissions by 2030. 39 Moreover, the Irish residential sector accounts for around 25% of the total energy use in the country, while also being responsible for a quarter of the energy - related CO 2 emissions. 40 Through a combination of energy efficien cy improvements and high energy prices, Ireland has managed to achieve a 25% reduction in CO 2 emissions from 2006 to 2014 in this sector . 41 However, between 2014 and 2016, the CO 2 emissions from buildings increas ed by 6% , and currently stands at almost 60% more CO 2 compared to the average EU household. 42 Taking into account all the above, Sustainalytics considers that ESB’s investments into energy efficient solutions, such as sm art meters, power transmission infrastructure, electric vehicles for the company’s fleet, electric vehicles charging points, and certified green buildings will have a positive impact in relation to lowering the GHG emissions from multiple sources of emissi ons in Ireland and the UK, while also supporting the countries in meeting their climate goals. Alignment with/contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable developmen t by the year 2030. This green bond advances the following SDG goals and targets: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global ene rgy mix Energy Efficiency Green Buildings 7. Affordable and Clean Ene rgy 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency. Clean Transportation 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordabl e, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with special attention to the needs of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and older persons. C onclusion 34 The Irish Times, “Ireland’s climate change plan ‘way off track’ in meeting targets”, (2019), at: https://www.irishtimes.com/news/environment/ireland - s - climate - change - plan - way - off - track - in - meeting - targets - 1.3860328 . 35 Bairstow, J. (2018), “UK Government to slash emissions by 32% bef ore 2020”, at: https://www.energylivenews.com/2018/02/07/uk - government - to - slash - emissions - by - 32 - before - 2020/ . 36 Committee on Climate Change, “UK regulations: the Climate Change Act”, at: https://www.theccc.org.uk/tackling - climate - change/the - legal - landscape/the - climate - change - act/ . 37 Irish Department of Communications, Climate Action & Environment, “Transport”, at: https://www.dccae.gov.ie/en - ie/energy/topics/Renewable - Energy/transport /Pages/Transport.aspx . 38 39 Irish Department of Communications, Climate Action & Environment, “Electric Vehicles”, at: h ttps://www.dccae.gov.ie/en - ie/energy/topics/Renewable - Energy/transport/electric - vehicles/Pages/Electric - Vehicles.aspx . 40 Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland, “Energy in the Residential Sector”, (2018), at: https://www.seai.ie/resources/publications/Energy - in - the - Residential - Sector - 2018 - Final.pdf . 41 Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland, “Energy in the Residential Sector”, (2018), at: https://www.seai.ie/resources/publications/Energy - in - the - Residential - Sector - 2018 - Final.pdf . 42 Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland, “Energy in the Resident ial Sector”, (2018), at: https://www.seai.ie/resources/publications/Energy - in - the - Residential - Sector - 2018 - Final.pdf .,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 8 E SB has developed the ESB Green Bond Framework, under which it is considering to issue green bonds and use the proceeds to finance and refinance, in whole or in part, existing and future projects related to renewable energy, energy efficiency, c lean transportation and green buildings. Sustainalytics believes that these projects will have environmental benefits and support a transition to a low carbon economy. Sustainalytics specifically notes the Framework’s contribution to the company’s ongoing transition to a low carbon electricity producer and distributor, and, in this regard, highlights the focus on renewable energy generation and transmission. Additional strengths of the Framework include the use of credible third - party green building standar ds and quantitative thresholds for energy performance improvement in ESB’s commercial buildings. ESB’s process for project evaluation and selection, management of proceeds and reporting are aligned with the G reen B ond P rinciples, and Sustainalytics consi ders these elements to be consistent with market practice. Furthermore, Sustainalytics believes that investments financed by green bond proceeds will support the advancement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with a specific impact on goal 7, Afforda ble and Clean Energy, and Goal 11, Sustainable Cities and Communities. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that ESB is well - positioned to issue Green financial instruments, and that the ESB Green Bond Framework is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2018.,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 9 Appendices Appendix 1: Sustainalytics’ Assessment of Green Building Standards BREEAM LEED Background BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) was first published by the Building Research Establishment (BRE) in 1990. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a US - based Certification System for residential and commercial buildings used worldwide. LEED was developed by the non - profit U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). Certification levels  Pass  Good  Very Good  Excellent  Outstanding  Certified  Silver  Gold  Platinum Areas of Assessment  Energy  Land Use and Ecology  Pollution  Transport  Materials  Water  Waste  Health and Wellbeing  Innovation  Energy and atmosphere  Sustainable Sites  Location and Transportation  Materials and resources  Water efficiency  Indoor environmental quality  Innovation in Design  Regional Priority Requirements Prerequisites dependin g on the levels of certification, and credits with associated points . This number of points is then weighted by item to determine an overall score, upon which the overall rating is based. Majority of BREEAM issues are flexible, meaning that the client can choose which to comply with to build their BREEAM performance score. Prerequisites independent of level of certification, and credits with associated points. These points are then added together to obtain the LEED level of certification There are se veral different rating systems within LEED. Each rating system is designed to apply to a specific sector (e.g. New Construction, Major Renovation, Core and Shell Development, Schools - /Retail - /Healthcare New Construction and Major Renovations, Existing Buil dings: Operation and Maintenance). Performance display,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 10 Qualitative Considerations Widely recognized internationally, with ability to adapt to local conditions . Widely recognized internationally, and strong assurance of overall quality. Append ix 2: Green Bond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Electricity Supply Board Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] ESB Green Bond Framework Revie w provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: 6 May 2019 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an update and add reference to earlier relevant review] Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : No te: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review.,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 11 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detailed review Reviewer s are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible categories for the use of proceeds (Ren ewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Clean Transportation and Green Buildings) are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles. Sustainalytics considers that green projects in the areas of renewable energy, low carbon transport and green buildi ngs to have positive environmental impacts and to advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☒ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☒ Clean transportation ☐ Sustai nable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☒ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable ): ESB has established a dedicated Green Finance Committee, formed from the Head of ESB’s Treasury, Sustainability and Strategy Areas and representatives from ESB’s Business Units, which will ensure compliance with the Green Bond Framework and,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 12 oversee the totality of the issuance process. The Green Finance Committee is responsible for reviewing the proposed projects with respect to the Eligibility Criteria and ensuring that the requirements of ESB’s environmental risk management procedures have been applie d. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that this process is in line with market standards. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined c ategories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☒ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☐ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☒ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS O verall comment on section (if applicable) : ESB will set up a register and internal controls in order to monitor and track the net proceeds allocated to Eligible Projects. In accordance with the evaluation and selection process, ESB will allocate an amount equal to the green bond net proceeds towards eligible green projects. The company will also strive to reach full allocation to eligible projects within two years of the Green Bond issuance. Sustainalytics considers this process to be in accordance with mar ket practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Addition al disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 13 ☒ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): ESB commits to producing, at least annually, an Allocation and Impact report either in its own dedicated report or integrated into ESB’s existing annual sust ainability report, which will be made available via the company’s website. Sustainalytics considers this process to be in accordance with market practice. Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☐ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to in dividual bond(s) ☒ Other (please specify):  Total funds distributed per Eligible Category and/ or per project where relevant Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☒ Other (pl ease specify):  Tot al funds used for refinancing or allocated to newly financed projects  Amount of unallocated proceeds Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 14 Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☒ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify):  Breakdown of Renewable Energy projects by energy type e.g. wind, solar  Installed renewable energy capacity (MW)  Renewable energy capacity connected (MW)  Expected annual renewable energy generation (MWh)  Number of smart meters installed  Number of customers using smart meters (supply)  Capacity of energy storage facilities installed  Annual reduction in energy consumption (in kWh)  Number of EV charging points installed or upgraded  Number of Electric Vehicles in ESB Fl eet tonnes Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☒ Information published in ad hoc documents ☐ Other (please specify): ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify whi ch parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section.,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 15 USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) www .esb.ie / ir https://esb.ie/docs/default - source/investor - relations - documents/annual - report - 2018 - full - report - (interactive - version).pdf?sfvrsn=d28304f0_2 https://www.esb.ie/acting - responsibly/sustainability - in - esb https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/sustainabi lity/esb - sustainability - report - 2017. https://www.esb.ie/docs/default - source/default - document - library/group - policy - here SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certificat ion ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, th at is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and /or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of crite ria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label define s specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green B ond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on en vironmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 16 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 201 9 . All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights to this Second - Party Opinion (the “Opinion”) are vested exclusively in Sustainalytics. Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing by Sustainalytics, no part of this Opinion may be reproduced, disseminated, comingled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made available to third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form or in any manner, be it electronically, mechanical ly, through photocopies or recordings, nor publicly released without the “Green Bond Framework” in conjunction with which this Opinion has been developed. The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to provide objective information on why the analyzed bond is co nsidered sustainable and responsible, and is intended for investors in general, and not for a specific investor in particular. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the subs tance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, the information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustain alytics does not warrant that the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibility for errors or omissions. Any reference to third party names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership an d does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable u niverses and/or portfolios. Furthermore, nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as an investment advice (as defined in the applicable jurisdiction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic performance and credit wort hiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments’ compliance, implementation and monitoring.,Second - Party Op inion ESB Gr een Bond 17 Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm that support investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with in stitutional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 countries, the world’s leading issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for se cond - party opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds Standard Board as a verifier organization, and supports various stakeholders in the development and verification of their frameworks. In 20 15, Global Capital awarded Sustainalytics “Best SRI or Green Bond Research or Ratings Firm” and in 2018 and 2019, named Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider. The firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Cli mate Bonds Initiative as well as Environmental Finance in 2018, and in 2019 was named the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” by the Climate Bonds Initiative. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special Mention Sustainable Finance Aw ard in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan and the Minister of the Environment Award in the Japan Green Contributor category of the Japan Green Bond Award s in 2019. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com