© Sustainalytics 20 21 Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018 and the Green Loan Principles 2020 . This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor y for the use of proceeds − Renewable Energy − is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples 2018 and the Green Loan Principles 2020 . Sustainalytics consider s that the eligible category is expected to facilitate renewable energy generation in countries where the Company operates and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically SDG 7 . Hanwha Solutions ’ internal process in evaluating and selecting projects i s overseen by the Green Financing Working Group (“GFWG”) comprised of members from Hanwha’s Accounting, Planning, Legal, Environment & Safety T eams and led by the International Finance or Finance T eam. It will be the responsibility of the GFWG to ensure allocation is in line with the eligibility criteria, facilitate reporting and manage any future updates to the Framework. Sustainalytics considers the project selection process is in line with market practice . Proceeds of the g reen b ond or l oan will be tracked by the Company’s GFWG using a dedicated ledger, which will include information on Green Bond or Loan details, eligible green project list, and amount of unallocated proceeds. Hanwha intends to reach full allocation 24 months after issuance. Pending allocation, unallocated proceeds wil l be held in cash or invested in short - term liquid money instruments. Sustainalytics views this process as in line with market practice . Hanwha Solutions intends to report on allocation and impact of proceeds on its website , as part of a dedicated green bond report, on an annual basis until full allocatio n. Allocation reporting will include the amount of proceeds allocated to the eligible green project category, the amount of u nallocated proceeds, the share of financing vs refinancing, description of eligible projects, and project examples where possible. In addition, Hanwha Solutions is committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics . Sustainalytics views Hanwha Solutions ’ al location and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Evaluation date March 2 4 , 2021 Issuer Locatio n Seoul , South Korea Report Sections Introduction ................................ ............... 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion .............................. 3 Append ices ................................ ................ 8 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Begum Gursoy (Amsterdam) Project Manager begum.gursoy@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 0082 Flora Mile (Amsterdam) Project Support flora.mile@sustainalytics.com Grace Pa r anjape (Amsterdam) Project Support grace.paranjape@sustainalytics.com Cheryl Tay (Singapore) Client Relations susfinance.apac@sustainalytics.com (+852) 3008 2391,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 2 Introduction Hanwha Solutions ( “ Hanwha ” , “Company” , or the “Issuer” ) was formed in 2020 and headquartered in Seoul due to a merger of Hanwha Chemical, Hanwha Q CELLS and Hanwha Advanced Materials. The Company develops smart energy solutions for a global customer - base and aims to do so with eco - friendly technology and sustainable innovation . Hanwha Solutions opera tes globally. Hanwha has developed the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it intends to issue green bonds and loans and use the proceeds to finance and/ or refinance, in whole or in part, existing and/ or future projects that are expected to facilitate renewable energy generation in countries w here the Company operates . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in one green are a : 1. Renewable Energy Hanwha engaged Sustainalytics to review the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework , dated February 2021 , and provide a S econd - P arty O pinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) 1 and the Green Loan Principles 2020 (GLP). 2 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 3 Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics ’ Second - Party Opinion Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent 4 opinion on the alignment of the reviewed Framework with the cur rent market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories are credible and impactful. As part of the Second - Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: • The Framework’s alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2018, as administ ered by ICMA, and the Green Loan Principles 2020, as administered by LMA , APLMA and LSTA 5 ; • The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds ; and • The alignment of the issuer ’ s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk management in relation to the use of proceeds . For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.7.1 , which is informed by market practice and Sustainalytics ’ expertise as an ESG research prov ider. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Hanwha ’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and repo rting aspects of the Framework. Hanwha representatives have confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of Hanwha to ensure that the information provided is complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with a ll relevant information and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Fram ework and should be read in conjunction with that Framework. Any update of the present Second - Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement conditions between Sustainalytics and Hanwha . Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion, while refle cting on the alignment of the Framework with market standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ . 2 The Gre en Loan Principles are administered by the Loan Market Association, Asia Pacific Loan Market Association and Loan Syndication s & Trading Association and are available at https://www.lsta.org/content/green - loan - principles/ 3 The Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework is available on Hanwha Solutions ’ website at: https://www.hanwha.com/en/investors.html 4 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustai nalytics and ensuring analyst independence is paramount to producing objec tive, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of com mercial and research (and engagem ent) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to spec ific commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency. 5 In addition to the Loan Markets Association, the GLP are also administered by the Asia Pacific Loan Market Association and the Loan Syndications & Trading Association,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 3 projects expected to be financed with bond and loan proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The measurement and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framework is the responsibility of the Framework owner. In addition, the Second - Party Opinion opines on the potential allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee the realised allocation of the bond and loan proceeds towards eligible activities. No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Seco nd - Party Opinion shall be considered as being a statement, representation, warrant or argument , either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that Hanwha has made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second - Party Opinion . Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the GBP and GLP . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of Hanw ha ’s G reen B ond F ramework : • Use of Proceeds: - The eligible categor y − Renewable Energy − is aligned with those recognized by the GBP and GLP . Sustainalytics notes that eligible projects are expected to facilitate renewable energy generation in countries where the Company operates . - Hanwha Solutions has defined a three - year lookback period for its refinancing activities, which Sustainalytics considers to be in line with market practice. - Hanwha Solutions intends to invest in the acquisition, r esearch and development (R&D) , downstream distribution, operation , and maintenance of renewable energy projects including solar photovoltaic, green hyd rogen, energy storage , and distribution . ▪ Hanwha Solutions has confirmed to Sustainalytics that all proje cts associated with hydrogen production , storage , and distribution will be dedicated to green hydrogen, where the process is by electrolysis powered by renewables. ▪ Regarding R&D, Hanwha Solutions may allocate the proceeds towards the research and development of affordable large - scale green hydrogen , and the research and development of solar cell and module s . Hanwha Solutions has confirmed to Sustainalytics that R&D expenditures include mid to late - stage projects with defined future ass ets and are limited to a maximum of 10% of the bond issuance. Sustainalytics considers this as in line with market practice . ▪ Hanwha Solutions has clarified to Sustainalytics that downstream distribution costs include development, construction and land acq uisition costs of underlying solar energy assets . ▪ Regarding acquisition investments, eligible expenditures may include acquisition of physical assets or pure - play companies for green hydrogen . In case a company is partially involved in eligible activities, the Issuer intends to use a pro - rata allocation of green proceeds based on the percentage of the book value of eligible green assets within the acquired company’s balance sheet , which Sustaina lytics considers to be in line with market practice. ▪ Hanwha Solutions has confirmed to Sustainalytics that operation and maintenance activities are limited to those that aim to extend the life - cycle value of the underlying renewable energy assets only. • Pr oject Evaluation and Selection: - Hanwha Solutions has established the Green Financing Working Group (“GFWG”) composed of members of the Company’s Accounting, Planning, Legal, Environment & Safety T eams, led by the Company’s International Finance or Finance T eam, to oversee and select eligible projects,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 4 under the Framework. It will be the GFWG ’s responsibility to ratify and monitor eligible projects, facilitate reporting, and manage any future updates to the Framework. - Based on the establishment of a formal group, Sustainalyti cs conside rs this process to be in line with market practice. • Management of Proceeds: - Hanwha Solutions ’ GFWG will be responsible for tracking and managing proceeds of each issuance under the Green Finance Framework . An amount equivalent to the net proceeds will be tracked using a separate ly established ledger , according to the Company’s formal internal procedure . Hanwha Solutions intends to reach full allocat ion within 24 months of issuance. Should any proceeds remain unallocated, they will be held in accordance with the relevant internal investment guidelines , in short - term liquid money instruments such as cash or market securities. - Based on these elements, Sustainalytics conside rs this process to be in line with market practice. • Reporting: - Hanwha Solutions intends to report on the allocation and impact of proceeds on its website as part of a dedicated green bond report on an annual basis until full allocation of the bond proceeds. The allocation reporting will include the total amount of proceeds allocated to eligible projects, the , balance of unallocated proceeds, the share of financing vs refinancing, and description of eligible projects, and project example where possib le. - In addition, Hanwha Solutions intends to publish an impact report reporting on relevant indicators such as number of Q.ANTUM cells/modules produced, annual renewable energy production (equivalent in GW), annual production capacity (GW), installed capac ity of renewable energy (MW), annual CO 2 emissions reduced or avoided (tons), annual renewable energy production (MWh), information on progress in R&D, and storage capacity of hydrogen tanks (metric tonnes). - Based on these commitments to both impact and al location reporting, Sustainalytics conside rs this process to be in line with market practice. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 and Green Loan Principles 2020 Sustainalytics has determined that the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework aligns to the four core components of the GBP and GLP . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 2 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of Hanwha Solutions Contribution of framework to Hanwha Solutions ’ sustainability strategy Hanwha Solutions demonstrates a commitment to sustainability through the development of energy technologies that support the adoption of renewable energy technology 6 and the implementation of its “Sustainability Management System” , a tool to support Company strategy and processes . The key area s of th e Sustainability M anagement S ystem that reflect Hanwha’s commitment is environmental management . 7 Under th e area of environmental management , Ha nwha Solutions has been developing technologies to facilitate affordable access to solar energy and h ydrogen. 8 In addition to its development efforts , the Company has taken measures to reduce the environmental impact of its own operations by reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 19% until 2020 from base year 2017. 7 Moreover , as a key part of their sustainability strategy, Hanwha Solutions is focused on improving their own operations in all subsidiaries in regards to air pollution, water conservation, waste treatment, soil protection and chemical management. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework is aligned with the company’s overall sustainability strategy and initiatives and will further the Company’s action on its key environmental priorities . While Sustainalytics’ acknowledges the importance of above efforts, Sustainalytics encourages Hanwha Solutions to develop transparent quantitative time - bounds targets. 6 Hanwha, “Our Commitment”, at: https://www .hanwha.com/en/sustainability/our - commitment.html 7 Hanwha Solutions, “Communication on Progress”, (2020), at: https://ungc - production.s3.us - west - 2.amazonaws.com/attachments/cop_2021/491965/original/1231_Hanwha%20Solutions%20COP_ENG%20Final.pdf?1609908525 8 Hanwha, “Innovative Solutions”, at: https://www.hanwha.com/en/sustainability/innovative - solutions.html,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 5 Well - positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While Sustainalytics recognizes that the net proceeds from th e bonds and/or loans issued under the Framework will be directed towards eligible projects that are recognized by the GBP and GLP to have positive environmental impact, Sustainalytics is aware that such eligible projects could also lead to negative environ mental and social outcomes . Some key environmental and social risks associated with the eligible projects, could include occupational health and safety, community relations/ stakeholder participation, land use and biodiversity issues associated with large - s cale infrastructure development, emissions, effluents, and waste generated in construction . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Hanwha is able to manage and/or mitigate potential risks through implementation of the following: • To manage occupational h eal th and s afety risks, all divisions of Hanwha Solutions have implemented and maintained the ISO 45001 Certification , 9 a globally recognized certification for health and safety management . 7 • Since 2012, Hanwha Solutions is a signatory to the UN Global Compact ’s Ten Principles, 10 and collaborates with internal and external stakeholder s to uphold human rights, eliminate unfair labor practices, support anti - corruption policies, and promote environmental sustainability . 11 All divisions of Hanwha Solutions comply with the ISO 14001 Certification for Environmental Management to further addre ss risks related to the preservation of environment and biodiversity. 7 • In order to manage environmental and social conflicts that arise with its stakeholders or the broader community , Hanwha Solutions keeps various communication channels open such as general shareholder meetings , labor council meetings, safety council and partnership committee meetings. 7 • To mitigate risks that a rise from chemicals effluents , waste and emissions , Hanwha manages product quality by complying with the EU REACH , 12 RoHS, 13 and GHS. 14 In addition to complying with international ly recognized standards, Hanwha provides trainings to employees and has developed responsive plans to manage accidents as they occur . 7 • Furthermore, Hanwha is focused on Corporate Compliance to ensure transparency and ethics overseen by Hanwha Compliance Committee. 6 The Compliance Committee is responsible for establishing and implementing Hanwha’s global compliance policies. Its members are external experts that remain independent and objective while deliberating on issu es related to compliance. 6 Based on these policies, standards and assessments, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Hanwha has implemented adequate measures and is well - positioned to manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible categories. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds The use of proceeds categor y of Renewable Energy is aligned with those recognized by the GBP and GLP . Sustainalytics has focused on the importance of increasing renewable energy share in the energy mix of China and Malaysia below where the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. Importance of facilitating renewable energy and green hydrogen investments Increasing the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix is critical in keeping global temperature rise below 1.5 Celsius degrees as dictated by the Paris Agreement. 15 Accounting for 53 % of global emissions , Asia 9 ISO, “ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety”, at: https://www.iso.org/iso - 45001 - occupational - health - and - safety.html 10 United Nations Global Company, “The 10 Principles”, at: https://www.unglobalcompact.org.uk/the - ten - principles/#:~:text=T he%20Ten%20Principles%20 - %20The%2010%20Principles%20The,make%20up%20the%20Ten%20Principles%20of%20the%20UNGC . 11 Hanwha Solutions, “Communication on Progress”, (2020), at: https://ungc - production.s3.us - west - 2.amazonaws.com/attachments/cop_2021/491965/original/1231_Hanwha%20Solutions%20COP_ENG%20Final.pdf?1609908525 12 REACH is the European Union's c hemical management program, which includes the registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals in terms of quantity and toxicity level. More information can be found here: https://ec.europa.eu/environment/chemicals/reach/reach_en.htm 13 RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances), introduced by the EU Commission, regulates six hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium, used in the electronics mater ial industry. More information can be found here: https://ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/rohs_eee/index_en.htm 14 GHS (Global Harmonized System) is a classification standard manag ed by the United Nations that was set up to standardize hazard testing, classification and labelling. Additional information can be found here: https://unece.org/about - ghs 15 UNFCCC, Sustainable Energy Critical For Paris Goals – UNGA President “”, at: https://unfccc.int/news/sustainable - energy - critical - for - paris - goals - unga - president,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 6 is the largest emitter globally. 16 Despite a decline in CO 2 emissions in Europe and the U.S., emissions continued to rise in 2019 which was largely driven by Asian economi e s , especially China. 17 Due to population growth, energy demand continues to grow in the region , and to meet the demand, the countries continue to rely heavily on coal. Between 2006 and 2016, the annual coal consumption rate increased by 3.7% in the region. 18 According to IRENA, Asia is responsible for 50% of global energy consumption, with 85% of consumption coming from fossil fuel s . 19 Asia has an important role in achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement globally. It is therefore crucial for Asian countries and all industries to decrease their reliance on c oal and increase renewable energy in the ir energy mix. During the UN General Assembly, China announced that it targets to hit peak emissions before 2030 and climate neutrality by 2060. 20 To be on track to meet the goal of carbon neutrality before 2060, th e share of renewable energy in China’s energy mix should expand thereby replacing the Chinese economy’s heavy reliance on carbon - based energy sources. According to estimations, USD 145 billion investments per year could allow China to significantly increas e the share of renewable energy in its energy mix reaching 26% before 2030. 21 Similar to the Chinese economy, Malaysia continues to rely heavily on carbon - based energy sources. The share of coal in Malaysia’s energy mix significantly increased between 1996 and 2016, from 5% to 20%. 22 In 2019, the Malaysian Government announced that it aims to target 20% of renewable energy in its generation mix by 2025. 23 To reach the renewable energy target by 2025, it is estimated that Malaysia needs USD 8 billion investments in its renewable energy sector. 23 While electricity produced from hydrogen has no direct emissions, almost 95% 24 of all hydrogen is produced from fossil fuels, requirin g 6% of global natural gas and 2% of global coal. 25 As a consequence, hydrogen is responsible for a significant amount of CO 2 emissions each year, more specifically 830 million tonnes of CO 2 which is approximately the equivalent of the combined emissions of Indonesia and the United Kingdom. 25 As demand for hydrogen will only increase in the future, due to industrial users, the transport sector, and buildings, producing hydrogen from renewables is essential. 26 Hydrogen produced from renewables via electrolysis could facilitate and increase the share of renewables in the global energy system. 27 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that by financing renewable energy projects and advancing the production of green hydrogen , Hanwha Solutions will help to increase the share of renewables in the region’s e nergy mix and overall contribute to keeping global warming to 1.5 Celsius degrees . Alignment with/ contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly and form an agenda for achiev ing sustainable development by the year 2030. The bond(s) and loan(s) issued under the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework advances the following SDG and target: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix 16 UN ESCAP, “The Economics of Cl imate Change in the Asia - Pacific Region”, (2016), at: https://www.unescap.org/sites/default/files/The%20Economics%20of%20Climate%20Change%20%20in%20the%20Asia - Pacific%20region.pdf 17 Carbon Brief, “Global Emissions”, at: https://www.carbonbrief.org/analysis - global - fossil - fuel - emissions - up - zero - point - six - per - cent - in - 2019 - due - to - china 18 UN ESCAP, “Economic and Social Survey of Asia and the Pacific 2020”, (2020), at: https://www.unescap.org/publications/economic - and - social - survey - asia - and - pacific - 2020 19 IRENA, “Asia and Pacific”, at : https://www.irena.org/asiapacific 20 UN News, “ Enhance solidarity’ to fight COVID - 19, Chinese President urges, also pledges carbon neutrality by 2060 ”, at: https://news.un.org/en/story/2020/09/1073052 21 IRENA, “ Energy Pro s pec ts : China”, at: https://www.irena. org/publications/2014/Nov/Renewable - Energy - Prospects - China 22 Malaysia’s Energy Policy Challenges, at: http://www.ideas.org.my/wp - content/uploads/2018/11 /P155 - Malaysia_Energy_Policy_v12.pdf 23 Power Technology, “ Malaysia needs US$8 billion investment to achieve 20% renewable energy target by 2025 ”, at: https://www.power - technology.com/comment/malaysia - needs - us8 - billion - investment - to - achieve - 20 - renewable - energy - target - by - 2025/ 24 The Korea Herald, “Hanwha sets eyes on green hydrogen”, at: http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20210121000353 25 IEA, “The Future of Hydrogen”, at: https://www.iea.org/reports/the - future - of - hydrogen 26 IRE NA, “Hydrogen from Renewable Power”, at: https://www.irena.org/publications/2018/Sep/Hydrogen - from - renewable - power 27 IRENA, “Hydrogen: a Renewable energy per spective ”, at: https://www.irena.org/publications/2019/Sep/Hydrogen - A - renewable - energy - perspective,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 7 Conclusion Hanwha has developed the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework under which it will issue green bonds and loans and the use of proceeds to finance or refinance renewable energy projects. Sustainalytics considers that the projects funded by the green bond or loan proceeds are expected to facilitate renewable energy generation in countries where the Company operates . The Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework outlines a process by which proceeds will be tracked, allocated, and managed, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocation and impact of the use of proceeds. Furthermore, Sustainalytics beli eves that the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework is aligned with the overall sustainability strategy of the company and that the green use of proceed category will contribute to the advancement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals 7. Additionall y, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Hanwha has adequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible projects funded by the use of proceeds. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confid ent that Hanwha Solutions is well - positioned to issue green bonds and that the Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018 and Green Loan Principles 202 0.,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 8 Appendi x Append ix 1 : Green B ond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Hanwha Solutions Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: March 24 , 2021 Publication date of review publication: Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBP: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detailed review Reviewe rs are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review.,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 9 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible category for the use of proceeds − Renewable Energy − is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles 2018 and the Green Loan Principles 2020. Sustainalytics considers that the eligible category is expected to facilitate renewable en ergy generation in countries where the Company operates and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals, specifically SDG 7 . Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBP ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBP: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): Hanwha Solutions ’ internal process in evaluating and selecting pro jects is overseen by the Green Financing Working Group (“GFWG”) comprised of members from Hanwha’s Accounting, Planning, Legal, Environment & Safety T eams and led by the International Finance or Finance T eam. It will be the responsibility of the GFWG to en sure allocation is in line with the eligibility criteria, facilitate reporting and manage any future updates to the Framework. Sustainalytics considers the project selection process is in line with market practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 10 ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Proceeds of the green bond or loan will be tracked by the Company’s GFWG using a dedicated ledger, which will include information on Green Bond or Loan details, eligible green project list, and amount of unallocated proceeds. Hanwha intends to reach full allocation 24 months after issuance. Pending allocation, un allocated proceeds will be held in cash or invested in short - term liquid money instruments. Sustainalytics views this process as in line with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropri ate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): Hanwha Solutions intends to report on allocation and impact of proceeds on its website, as part of a dedicated green bond report, on an annual basis until full allocation. Allocation reporting will include the amount of proceeds allocated to the eligible green project category, the amount of unallocated proceeds, the share of financing vs refinancing, description of eligible projects, and project examples where possible. In addition, Hanwha Solutions is committe d to reporting on relevant impact metrics. Sustainalytics views Hanwha Solutions ’ allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice.,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 11 Use of proceeds reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☒ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☒ Other (please specify): Description of projects, the share of financing vs refinancing and project examples Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Q.ANTUM cells/modules produced, annual renewable energy production (equivalent in GW), annual production capacity (GW), installed capacity of renewable energy (MW), annual renewable energy production (MWh), information on progress in R&D, and storage capa city of hydrogen tanks (metric tonnes). Frequency ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 12 ☒ Information published in ad hoc documents ☐ Other (please specify): ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) https://www.hanwha.com/en/investors.html SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second - Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second - Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second - Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of proje cts intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with inte rnal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s intern al tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may v erify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scena rio. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 13 Disclaimer Copyright ©202 1 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalytics, or provided that appropriate c itation and acknowledgement is ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project; (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice or a prospectus; (3) cannot be interpret ed as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) ha ve not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up - to - dateness or fitness for a particular purp ose. The information and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the information, data or opinions contained here in, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list o f our third - party data providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal - disclaimers . The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion Hanwha Solutions Green Financing Framework 14 About Sustainalytics , a Morningstar Company Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. The firm wo rks with hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their investment processes. The world’s foremost issuers, from multinational corporations to financial i nstitutions to governments, also rely on Sustainalytics for credible second - party opinions on green, social and sustainable bond frameworks. In 2020, Climate Bonds Initiative named Sustainalytics the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” for the third consecutive year. The firm was also recognized by Environmental Finance as the “Largest External Reviewer” in 2020 for the second consecutive year. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.c om .