039.68 99 905 (r.a.) Fax 039.68 99 930 www.dnvgl.it - Capi DNV GL Business Assurance Group AS con Sede in Veritasveien 1, 1363 Høvik, 0219 Bærum, Norway.DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE ITALIA S.r.l. Società unipersonale – Direzione, Sede Legale e Amministrativa : Via Energy Park, 14 - 20871 Vimercate (MB) - Italy - Tel. IREN SPA GREEN BOND DNV GL ELIGIBILITY ASSESSMENT Scope and o bjectives IREN S . p . A . (“ IREN ” or “Issuer” ), an Italian utility company, was founded in 2010 and is listed on the Stock Exchange of Milan. IREN i s considering the issuance of a 2020 G reen B ond in EURO (henceforth referred to as “BOND”) and would like to label the issuance as a “Green Bond” as defined within the Green Bond Principles set out by the International Capital Market Association ( “ GBP ” ). The proposed Bond is to be multiple note issues up to a notional value of Euro 3 00 million . IREN intends to use the proceeds of the BOND to refinance debts associated with the numerous projects and assets within Italy falling within the following categ ories: Renewable Energy: • Solar PV Energy Generation; • Energy Network Development; Energy Efficiency • Energy Distribution and Management; • Cogeneration Facilities; Waste Management Efficiency and Recycling • Waste collection and sorting upgrades; Waste Water Treatment • Wast ewater treatment plant upgrades. DNV GL Business Assurance Italia S . r . l . ( henceforth referred to as “ DNV GL ” ) has been commissioned by IREN to provide a Green Bond eligibility assessmen t of the BOND . Our methodology to achieve this is described under ‘Work Undertaken’ below. We wer e not commissioned to provide independent a ssurance or other audit activities . No assurance is provided regarding th e financia l performance of the B OND , the v alue of any investments in the B OND S , or the long term environmental benefits of the transaction. Our objective has been to provide an assessment that the B OND has met the criteria established on the basis set out below. The scope of this DNV GL opinion is limited to the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) .,Page 2 of 14 Responsibilities of the Management of IREN and DNV GL The management of IREN has provided the information and data used by DNV GL during the delivery of this review . Our statement represents an independent opinion and is intended to inform IREN management and other interested stakeholders in the B OND as to whether the established crite ria have been met, based on the information provided to us. In our work we have relied on the information and the facts presented to us by IREN . DNV GL is not responsible for any aspect of the nominated assets referred to in this opinion and cannot be held liable if estimates, findings, opinions, or conclusions are incorrect. Thus, DNV GL shall not be held liable if any of the information or data provided by IREN ’s management and used as a basis for this assessment were not correct or complete. Basis of DNV GL’s opinion We have adapted our Green Bond Principles methodolog y , which incorporates the requirements of the GBP , to create a IREN - specific Green Bond Eligibility Ass essment Protocol ( henceforth referred to as “Protocol”) . Our Protocol includes a set of suitable criteria that can be used to underpin DNV GL’s opinion. The overarching principle behind the criteria is that a green bond should “enable capital - raising and investment for new and existing projects with environmental benefits”. As per our Protocol, t he criteria against which the B OND has been reviewed are grouped under the four Principles: • Principle One: Use of Proceeds . The Use of Proceeds criteria are guided by the requirement that an issuer of a green bond must use the funds raised to finance eligible activities. The eligible activities should produce clear environmental benefits. • Principle Two: Process for Project Evaluation and Selection . The Project Evaluation and Selection criteria are guided by the requirements that an issuer of a green bond should outline the process it follows when determining eligibility of an investment using Green Bond proceeds and outline any impact objectives it will consider. • Principle Three: Management of Proceeds . The Management of Proceeds c riteria are guided by the requirements that a green bond should be tracked within the issuing organization, that separate portfolios should be created when necessary and that a declaration of how unallocated funds will be handled should be made. • Principle Four: Reporting . The Reporting criteria are guided by the recommendation that at least Sustainability Report ing to the bond investors should be made of the use of bond proceeds and that quantitative and/or qualitative performance indicators should be used , where feasible. Work undertaken Our work constituted a high level review of the available information, based on the understanding that this information was provided to us by IREN in goo d faith. We have not performed an audit or other tests to check the veracity of the information provide d to us. The work undertaken to form our opinion included:,Page 3 of 14 • C reation of a n IREN - specific Protocol , adapted to the purpose of the B OND , as described above and in Schedule 2 to this Assessment ; • Assessment of documentary evidence provided by IREN on the B OND a nd supplemented by a high - level desktop research . These checks refer to current assessment best practices and standards methodology ; • Discussions with IREN management , and review of relevant documentation ; • D ocumentation of findings against each element of the criteria . Our opinion as detailed below is a summary of these findings. Findings and DNV GL’s opinion DNV GL’s findings are listed below : 1. Principle One: Use of Proceeds . IREN plans to use the proceeds of the B OND to re finance projects and assets including: Renewable Energy: • Solar PV Energy Generation; • Energy Network Development; Energy Efficiency • Energy Distribution and Management; • Cogeneration Facilities; Waste Management Efficiency and Recycling • Waste collection and sorting upgrades; Waste Water Treatment • Wast ewater treatment plant upgrades. DNV GL reviewed the criteria for the project categories above to determine the eligibility of the nominated projects and assets . 2. Principle Two: Process for Project Evaluation and Selection . The BOND ’ s proceeds will be allocated to finance and refinanc e the assets as defined in Schedule 1 . DNV GL has reviewed evidence that demonstrates that IREN regularly assesses opportunities for improvement and devises action plans and initiatives to mitigate negative environmental and social impacts from its operations. 3. Principle Three: Management of Proceeds DNV GL has reviewed evidence showing how IREN pla ns to trace the proceeds from the Bond , from the time of issua nce to the time of disbursement . The full amount of the proceeds will be managed within treasury or equivalent , and thereafter disbursed in accordance with the debt obligation . The details of th e disbursement and the outstanding value will be tracked using IREN ’s internal financial reporting system . At the end of each financial period, IREN will review the outstanding balance of the BOND . As stated above, DNV GL provides no assurance regarding th e financial performance of the Bond, the value of any investments in the Bond, or the effects of the transaction.,Page 4 of 14 4. Principle Four: Reporting. IREN has confirmed that it will include a dedicated section on the Green Bond in its Sustainability Report and its website . This will include description of the project and value of the proceeds invested, as well as the associated qualitative and quantitative environmental impacts. IREN plans to report on a specified range of KPIs relevant to each of the nominated Projects and Assets within the bond as specified in Appendix 2 of the Sustainable Financing Framework. This Appendix also sets out a schedule of performance improvements fo recast which IREN with subsequently report on through the term of the bond. On the basis of the information provided by IREN and the work undertaken, it is DNV GL’s opinion that the BOND meets the criteria established in the Protocol and that it is aligne d with the stated definition of green bonds within the Green Bond Principles, which is to “enable capital - raising and investment for new and existing projects with environmental benefits” . for DNV GL Business Assurance Italia Srl 8 December 2020 Mark Robinson Manager, Sustainability Services DNV GL – Business Assurance About DNV GL Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, DNV GL enables organisations to advance the safety and sustainability of their business. Combining leading technical and operational expertise, risk methodology and in - depth industry knowledge, we empower our customers’ decisions and actions with trust and confidence. We continuously invest in research and collaborative innovation to provide customers and society with operational and technological foresight. With our origins stretch ing back to 1864, our reach today is global. Operating in more than 100 countries, our 16,000 professionals are dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener.,Page 5 of 14 SCHEDULE 1: DESCRIPTION OF NOMINATED ASSET TO BE FINANCE D AND REFINANCED THROUGH IREN GREEN BOND Project Description and Eligible Category (DNV) Eligible Green Category Business Unit SDG total 2011 - 2019 2020 2021 total % Cogeneration facilities 98 , 215 , 871 75 , 518 98 , 291 , 389 32 . 8% Cogeneration plant Torino Nord Energy efficiency Energy 98 , 215 , 871 75 , 518 98 , 291 , 389 32 . 8% Waste collection and sorting upgrades 38 , 862 , 550 11 , 100 , 000 49 , 962 , 550 16 . 7% IBLU: Selection plant in San Giorgio di Nogaro (UD) Waste management efficiency and recycling Waste management 7 , 000 , 000 800 , 000 7 , 800 , 000 2 . 6% IBLU: Selection plant in Cadelbosco (RE) Waste management efficiency and recycling Waste management 6 , 700 , 000 2 , 000 , 000 8 , 700 , 000 2 . 9% IBLU: Recycling plant in Costa di Rovigo (RO) Waste management efficiency and recycling Waste management 8 , 800 , 000 1 , 500 , 000 10 , 300 , 000 3 . 4% IBLU: Recycling plant in San Giorgio di Nogaro (UD) Waste management efficiency and recycling Waste management 3 , 000 , 000 6 , 800 , 000 9 , 800 , 000 3 . 3% Development of separate waste collection services Waste management efficiency and recycling Waste management 6 , 251 , 788 6 , 251 , 788 2 . 1% Biowaste recovery to produce compost and biomethane - Ferrania (SV) Waste Management Efficiency and Recycling Waste management 7 , 110 , 762 7 , 110 , 762 2 . 4% Solar PV energy generation 28 , 489 , 267 28 , 489 , 267 9 . 5% Enìa Solaris photovoltaic plants near Brindisi Renewable energy Energy 8 , 596 , 587 8 , 596 , 587 2 . 9% Photovoltaic plants owned by "Varsi" company Renewable energy Energy 10 , 679 , 099 10 , 679 , 099 3 . 6% Photo voltaic plants owned by "Greensource" company Renewable energy Energy 9 , 213 , 581 9 , 213 , 581 3 . 1%,Page 6 of 14 Project Description and Eligible Category (DNV) Eligible Green Category Business Unit SDG total 2011 - 2019 2020 2021 total % Energy distribution and management 82 , 415 , 545 29 , 897 , 508 112 , 313 , 053 37 . 4% Torino LED (I and II phases) Energy efficiency Energy 2 , 630 , 449 2 , 630 , 449 0 . 9% Smart solutions Energy efficiency Energy 10 , 728 , 165 10 , 728 , 165 3 . 6% Electricity distribuzione Smart Metering 1G (Torino and Parma) Energy efficiency Networks 1 , 127 , 931 1 , 127 , 931 0 . 4% Gas distribution Smart Metering (Emilia and Liguria) Energy efficiency Networks 5 , 284 , 759 5 , 284 , 759 1 . 8% Replacement of gas distribution networks Energy efficiency Networks 81 , 287 , 615 11 , 254 , 135 92 , 541 , 749 30 . 8% Energy network development 3 , 702 , 492 3 , 702 , 492 1 . 2% Pa rma district heating network Renewable energy Energy 1 , 666 , 623 1 , 666 , 623 0 . 6% District heating networks development in Reggio Emilia Renewable energy Energy 2 , 035 , 869 2 , 035 , 869 0 . 7% Wastewater treatment plant upgrades 1 , 852 , 559 5 , 388 , 689 0 7 , 241 , 248 2 . 4% Im provement of Reggio Emilia plants Waste water treatment Networks 1 , 016 , 055 99 , 950 0 1 , 116 , 005 0 . 4% Improvement of Piacenza plants Waste water treatment Networks 836 , 504 0 836 , 504 0 . 3% Investiment in drainage and purification (La Spezia - Liguria) Waste water treatment Networks 5 , 288 , 739 0 5 , 288 , 739 1 . 8% TOTAL 214 , 675 , 735 74 , 224 , 265 11 , 100 , 000 300 , 000 , 000 100 . 0%,Page 7 of 14 SCHEDULE 2: GREEN BOND ELIGIBILITY ASSESSMENT PROTOCOL 1. Use of proceeds Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings 1a Type of bond The bond must fall in one of the following categories, as defined by the Green Bond Principles: • Green Use of Proceeds Bond • Green Use of Proceeds Revenue Bond • Green Project Bond • Green Securitized Bond Review of: - BOND Term Sheet - IREN Sustainable Financing Framework Discussions with IREN management The reviewed evidence confirms that the BOND fall s in the category: Green Use of Proceeds Bond . 1b Green Project Categories The cornerstone of a Green Bond is the utilization of the proceeds of the bond which should be appropriately described in the legal documentation for the security. Review of: - BOND Term Sheet - IREN Sustainable Financing Framework - Sub Project Performance and Financial Documentation Discussions with IREN management As identified by the BOND Term Sheet t he purpose of the BOND is to use the proceeds to finance and refinance credit facilities for projects falling under the following categories: Renewable Energy: • Solar PV Energy Generation; • Energy Network Development; Energy Efficiency • Energy Distribution and Mana gement; • Cogeneration Facilities; Waste Management Efficiency and Recycling • Waste collection and sorting upgrades;,Page 8 of 14 Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings Waste Water Treatment • Wastewater treatment plant upgrades . DNV GL’s assessment concluded that these assets are aligned with the categories defined in the Green Bond Principles 2018 . 1c Environmen tal benefits All designated Green Project categories should provide clear environmentally sustainable benefits, which, where feasible, will be quantified or assessed by the issuer. Review of: - BOND Term Sheet - IREN Sustainable Financing Framework - IREN Asset Specifications Discussions with IREN management DNV GL considers the cogeneration facilities harvesting waste energy from existing operations to qualify as Green. DNV GL considers the improvements in waste collection and processing procedures resulting in 10% more sorted wastes for recycling and 10% less gross unsorted wastes within existing waste management area s to qualify as Green. DNV GL considers the upgrade of existing Wastewater Treatment Facilities to process 30% greater waste loads while meeting the current and forecast discharge standards to qualify as Green. DNV GL reviewed the smart grid and energy efficiency projects and considers the upgrades to LED lighting, grid energy efficiency and loss prevention and smart grid and meter investments to qualify as Green. DNV GL reviewed the gas network efficiency projects and confirmed the investments to be associated with reticulation upgrades to reduce system losses (methane emissions to atmosphere).,Page 9 of 14 Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings DNV GL considers the energy network development associated with delivering energy from renewable energy generation and storage to qualify as Green. 1d Refinancing share In the event that a proportion of the proceeds may be used for refinancing, it is recommended that issuers provide an estimate of the share of financing vs. re - f inancing, and where appropriate, also clarify which investments or project portfolios may be refinanced. Review of: - BOND Term Sheet - Bond disclosure documentation - BOND Proceeds and reporting framework Discussions with IREN management The proceeds of the BOND , as below , will be used to finance and refinance the nominated projects assets listed in Schedule 1 . The refinancing share of the investments is estimated to be 70% 2. Process for Project Selection and Evaluation Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings 2a Investment - decision process The issuer of a Green Bond should outline the decision - making process it follows to determine the eligibility of projects using Green Bond proceeds. This includes, without limitation: • A process to determine how the projects fit within he eligible Green Projects categories identified in the Green Bond Principles; • The criteria making the projects eligible for using the Green Bond proceeds; and Review of: - BOND Term Sheet - IREN Sustainable Financing Framework - Appendix 2 of the Sustainable Financing Framework As per the IREN Sustainable Financing Framework, the issuer has set out the following criteria for project selection: 3 .2 Process for Project Evaluation and Selection All the Eligible Projects / Activities are selected in respect of "Relevant Eligibility Requirements". The eligible investment projects must have a clear positive environmental impact and Shall be aligned w ith the policies of sustainability and defined by IREN. “Relevant Eligibility Requirements” means the requirements / characteristics which grant visible, relevant and measurable environmental benefits associated with defined categories such as: Increase o f energy production by non - fossil fuels, Increase,Page 10 of 14 Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings • The environmental sustaina bility objectives of energy efficiency, Improvement of WTE plants for waste treatment, Improvement of wastewater treatment plants, Increase of sorted waste collection and disposal and Reduction of waste disposed in landfills , Reduction of water networks losses and Avoided CO2 emissions from fossil sources due to electricity production from renewables and to use of electric vehicles. Appendix 2 includes details on and environmental and social criteria and key performance indicators (KPIs) to be used during the process of evaluation and selection of Eligible Projects / Activities. The Sustainable Financing Committee half yearly reviews the Sustainability criteria (Appendix 3) and key performance indicators (KPIs) to be used during the process of evaluation and selection to facilitate the reporting and to ensure they meet the Green Bond/Loan Principles and the Climate Bonds Standard. Th e internal process for evaluation and selection Involves: • Technical assessment: each project is proposed with a technical card describing characteristics, environmental benefits (KPI) and annual financial data; • Accounting / Planning assessment: annual da ta are checked and reported in respect of accounting and planning procedures; • Sustainability assessment: each project is selected according to Functional sustainability criteria and objectives • Finance assessment: each project is selected according to Fun ctional finance criteria and or objectives At the end of this process, if all assessments are positive, the project will be included in a portfolio of Eligible Projects / Activities (Portfolio of the eligible Projects / Activities).,Page 11 of 14 Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings DNV GL confirmed this process to define a clear and repeatable s ystem by which projects maybe identified and included or excluded from the Green Bond project pool. The Criteria making the projects eligible for inclusion contained within Appendix 2 of the Sustainable Financing Framework were in line with the green Bond Principles eligible categories and can be expected to result in quantifiable environmental benefits as set out and scheduled with KPI metrics in Appendix 2. 2 b Issuer’s environment al and social and governance framework In addition to information disclosed by an issuer on its Green Bond process, criteria and assurances, Green Bond investors may also take into consideration the quality of the issuer’s overall framework and performance regarding environmental sustainability . Review of: - I REN Sustainability and CSR Policy and Governance Framework - IREN Sustainability Reporting - IREN Sustainable Financing Framework - Appendix 2 to the IREN Sustainable Financing Framework Discussions with IREN management DNV GL reviewed the IREN Environmental and Sustainability Policy in addition to the Sustainability Reporting Framework for IREN and its subsidiary organisations. IREN’s Sustainability and CSR policies and governance frameworks form the basis for clear stakeholder reporting of rel evant metrics such a GHG emissions, Energy generation, waste management, technological rollouts and other social and environmental metrics. The proposed reporting associated with the IREN Green Bond is in line with their existing Sustainability Reporting f ramework and metrics to stakeholders and investors. IREN’s Sustainability reporting is conducted according to GRI G4 Guidelines with external review of their Sustainability Reporting. DNV GL notes that the performance of the nominated assets within the B ond pool is to be reported as a part of IREN’s periodic Sustainability reporting as per the IREN Sustainable Financing Framework. The selected reporting performance metrics for the nominated projects and assets as stated within Appendix 2 of the Sustainab le Financing Framework, are in line with the social and environmental governance framework demonstrated by IREN within the information provided on their website.,Page 12 of 14 Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings DNV GL notes that in addition to the stated metrics, IREN has provided a forecast schedule o f environmental performance for the nominated projects and assets for future reporting and performance evaluation purposes. This is noted to provide an additional layer of reporting and transparency for stakeholders We have also carried out a high - level m edia review of IREN . We have found no evidence to suggest that IREN or any of the assets are or have been operating in breach of national or local environmental regulations. Based on the evidence reviewed and the discussion we had with senior managers, we found nothing to suggest that IREN ’s environmental, social and governance framework is not in line with good practice of the industry in which it operates. 3. Management of proceeds Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings 3a Tracking procedure The net proceeds of Green Bonds should be credited to a sub - account, moved to a sub - portfolio or otherwise tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner and attested to by a formal internal process that will be linked to the issuer’s l ending and investment operations for Green Projects. Review of: - B OND term sheet - BOND Proceeds and reporting framework Discussions with IREN management The evidence reviewed shows how IREN plans to trace the BOND ’s proceeds, from the time of issuance to the time of disbursement. The full amount of the proceeds will be managed within treasury or equivalent , and ther e after disbursed in accordance with the debt obligations . The details of the disbursement and the outstanding value will be tracked in IREN ’s internal financial system . At the end of each,Page 13 of 14 Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings financial period, the outstanding balance of the B OND will be reviewed. 3b Tracking procedure So long as the Green Bonds are outstanding, the balance of the tracked proceeds should be periodically reduced by amounts matching eligible green investments or loan disbursements made during that period. Review of: - B OND term sheet - IREN Sustainable Financing Framework Discussions with IREN management The evidence reviewed shows that IREN plans to trace the proceeds from the BOND, from the time of issuance to the time of disbursement and reduce the net balance of proceeds by amounts in line with the assets debt repayment schedule . At the end of each fin ancial period, the outstanding balance of the Bond will be reviewed. 3c Temporary holdings Pending such investments or disbursements to eligible Green Projects, the issuer should make known to investors the intended types of temporary investment instruments for the balance of unallocated proceeds. Review of: - BOND Management of Proceeds framework Discussions with IREN management The net proceeds of the Bond will be managed within treasury or equivalent, tracked and will be fully and immediately disbursed where possible or held in equivalent green investments or cash equivalent until disbursement to the nominated assets as per the IREN Sustainable Financing Framework,Page 14 of 14 4. Reporting Ref. Criteria Requirements Work Undertaken DNV GL Findings 4a Periodical reporting In addition to reporting on the use of proceeds and the temporary investment of unallocated proceeds, issuers should provide at least annually a list of projects to which Green Bond proceeds have been allocated including - when possible with regards to confidentiality and/or competitive considerations - a brief description of the projects and the amounts disbursed, as well as the expected environmentally sustainable impact. Discussions with IREN ma nagement IREN will include a dedicated section on the Green Bond in its Sustainability Report . This will include description of the project and value of the proceeds invested, as well as the associated qualitative and quantitative environmental impacts. I REN plans to report on a number of project performance specific metrics as listed in Appendix 2 of the Sustainable Financing Framework. In addition, IREN has provided a forecast schedule of environmental performance for the nominated projects and assets to be reported on through the term of the Green Bond .