© Sustainalytics 20 20 Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (hereinafter “ MHI ” or the “Company”) Green Bond Framewo rk (The “Framework”) is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018 (GBP) . This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor y for the use of proceeds , Renewable Energy/Clean Energy , is aligned with those recognized by the GBP . Sustainalytics considers that the eligible category will lead to posit ive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically SDG 7 - Affordable and Clean Energy . MHI’s business divisions will evaluate and select p r ojects , and the F inance department then confirms that the projects are aligned with the eligibility criteria. Sustainalytics considers the Company ’s project evaluation and selection process in line with market practice . The F inance department will track the amount of allocated and unallocated green bond proceeds regularly, at least once a year , using the Company’s internal management system. Unallocated proceeds will be held in a form of cash or cash equivalents. The Company intends to allocate green bond proceeds immediately after the bonds’ issuance. The Company’s management of proceeds is in line with market practice . MHI intends to report on the allocation of proceeds and environmental impacts , on its website on an annual basis . A llocation reporting will in clude the a mount of allocated proceeds, amount or share of , allocation schedule for , and method to manage , unallocated proceeds , as well as the o verview of projects for which the proceed s were allocated to the extent practicable . I mpact reporting will include , the annual amount of power generated (MWh) and the annual amount of CO 2 emissions reduced (tons) by the renewable energ y /clean energy facilities funded by the green bond proceeds, as well as the progress in R&D to the extent practicable . The Company is also committed to obtaining annual reviews from an independent review er after the issuance of green bonds. Sustainalytics view s that MHI’s commitment on reporting and annual reviews a s aligned with market practice. Evaluation date October 23 , 2020 Issuer Locatio n Tokyo , Japan Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ ................ 10 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Wakako Mizuta (Tokyo) Project Manager wakako.mizuta@sustainalytics.com (+81) 3 4578 7516 Marie Toyama (Tokyo) Project Support marie.toyama@sustainalytics.com (+81) 3 4510 7394 Alignment with Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Framework is in line with Green Bond Guidelines 2020 developed by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan. The guidelines communicate what an issuer is expected to do to issue a credible green bond. Sustainalytic s assessed the al ignment between the Framework and the ‘should’ items outlined in Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020.,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 2 Introduction Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. is a comprehensive heavy machinery manufacturer headquartered in Tokyo , engaged in engineering, manufacture, sales and services in a wide range of areas, including power generation systems, ships, transportation systems, aircraft, space systems, and defense - related products. Operating in a number of markets worldwide ranging from Japan to Asia, North and Central Americas, South America, Europe, Middle East, and Africa, the Company generates more than half of its revenue overseas. MHI 1 has developed the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it intends to issue green bonds and use the proceeds to finance and/ or refinance projects that provide environmental benefits . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in t he following area . 1. Renewable Energy/Clean Energy a. Wind power b. H ydrogen power c. Geothermal power MHI engaged Sustainalytics to review the Framework , dated September 2020 , a nd provide a S econd - P arty O pinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the GBP 2 and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020. 3 A summary overview of the Framework has been provided in Appendix 1. Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics Second - Party Opinion Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics independent 4 opinion on the alignment of the reviewed Framework with the current market standards and the extent to which the eligible categories are credible and impactful. As part of the Second - Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: • The Framework’s alignment with the GBP and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020; • The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds ; • The alignment of the issuer ’ s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk management in relation to the use of proceeds . For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1. 6 .1 , which is informed by market practice and Sustainalytics ’ expertise as an ESG research provider. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of MHI ’s Finance department to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework. M HI representatives have confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of MHI to ensure that the information provided is complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant information and (3) that an y provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with that Framework. Any update of the present Second - Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement conditions between Sustainalytics and MHI . Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework wi th market standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible 1 “MHI” in this document includes the Company’s consolidated group companies . 2 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ . 3 Ministry of the Environment, Japan, “Green Bond Guidelines, 2020”, at: http://www.env.go.jp/policy/guidelines_set_version_with%20cover.pdf 4 When operating multip le lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustainalytics and ensuring analyst independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of commercial an d research (and engagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, an alyst compensation is not directly tied to specific commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency.,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 3 projects expected to be financed with bond proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The measurement and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framework is the responsibility of the Framework owner. In addition, the Second - Party Opinion opines on th e intended allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee the realised allocation of the bond proceeds towards eligible activities. No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second - Party Opinion shall be considered as being a statement, re presentation, warrant or argument either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that MHI has made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second - Party Opinion . Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful, a nd aligns with the four core components of the GBP . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of the F ramework : • Use of Proceeds: - Renewable Energy/Clean Energy , in which MHI intends to use the green bond proceeds, is a categor y and project with clear environmental benefits as recognized by the GBP. MHI's investments through the green bond will contribute to the development of renewable energy /clean energy in the Japanese and global markets and will promote the energy sector’s decarbonization, which is one of the Company's medium - to long - term initiatives. Please refer to Sec tion 3 for Sustainalytics’ in - depth assessment of environmental benefits expected from the use of proceeds. - For the Renewable Energy/Clean Energy category, MHI intends to allocate the proceeds to R&D for and manufacture of onshore and offshore wind power generation, hydrogen power generation, and geothermal power generation facilities as well as b usiness development, investment and operation of such power p lants . Sustainalytics positive ly views the following elements of the Company’s use of proceeds: ▪ With regard s to the hydrogen power generation, Sustainalytics acknowledges that hydrogen is currently produced mainly from natural gas and other fossil fuels and carbon d ioxide is emitted during its production. MHI has committed to Sustainalytics that it will restrict allocation of the proceeds to the production of hydrogen produced from 100% renewable energy and operations of power plant s fueled by 100% hydrogen . ▪ Additionally , w ith regard s to the allocation of the proceeds to the R&D and manufacturing of hydrogen power generation facilities, the Company limits such allocation to the facilities where 100% hydrogen will be used for power generation . ▪ For the geothermal power generation, Sustainalytics acknowledges that, while approximately two thirds of geothermal power plants globally emit 100 g CO 2 /kWh or less, there are plants that emit more, up to 1,300 g CO 2 /kWh as maxi mum. However, MHI limits eligible projects for the use of proceeds to the facilities with the direct emission amount of 100 g CO 2 /kWh or less. ▪ When investing in a renewable energy /clean energy (wind, geothermal, and hydrogen power) business, the Company al locates the proceeds to the pure players who engage exclusively in, or generates at least 90% of their sales from such energy business. - MHI also intends to allocate the proceeds to existing projects. For such projects, the Company defines a lookback period of seven years prior to the green bond issuance date within the Framework . When allocating proceeds to Operating Expenses (OPEX) , in addition t o Capital Expenditure (CAPEX), Sustainalytics acknowledges that market expectation is to limit the allocation of proceeds to expenditures incurred within the last three years.,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 4 • Project Evaluation and Selection: - MHI’s business divisions will evaluate and select p rojects , and the F inance department will confirm that the project s meet the eligibility criteria. F inal decision s will be made by the Chief Financial Officer. Sustainalytics considers t h e Company’s process to evaluate and select projects to be in line with market practice. • Management of Proceeds: - MHI’s F inance department is assigned to manag e the green bond proceeds and track the amount of allocated and unallocated green bond proceeds regularly, at least once a year , using the Company’s internal management system, until the maturity of the green bond. Pending allocation, unallocated funds will be held in cash or cash equivalents. The Company intends to allocate the green bond proceeds immediately after the issuance of the green bond . Sustainalytics considers the Company’s management of proceeds to be in line with market practice. • Reporting: - MH I is committed to report ing the allocation of proceeds and environmental impacts on its public website on an annual basis . - Allocation reporting will be conducted until the proceeds are fully allocated , on an aggregated basis , includ ing the amount of allocated proceeds , amount or share of , allocation schedule for , and method to manage , unallocated proceeds , as well as , to the extent practicable, the overview of projects with up - to - date progress for which the proceeds were allocated . Impact reporting will be conducted until the maturity of the green bonds , on an aggregated basis , includ ing , to the extent practicable , the annual amount of power generated (MWh) and the annual amount CO 2 reduced (tons) by the renewable energy /clean energy facilities funded by the green bond proceeds, as well as their progress in R&D. Moreover, t he C ompany is committed to providing timely disclosure in the event of significant changes. - In addition to the a llocation and impact reporting, the Company is committed to obtaining an annual review from an independent review er after the issuance. Sustainalytics views that MHI’s commitment on reporting and annual reviews as aligned with market practice. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determined that the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework aligns to the four core components of the GBP . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 2 : Green Bond/Green Bon d Programme External Review Form. Alignment with Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Framework is in line with Green Bond Guidelines 2020 developed by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan. The guidelines communic ate what an issuer is expected to do to issue a credible green bond. Sustainalytics assessed the alignment between the Framework and the ‘should’ items outlined in Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020. GBP and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020 Alignment wit h GBP and with Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020 Sustainalytics’ comments on alignment with Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020 5 1. Use of Proceeds Yes MHI defines the projects related to renewable energy /clean energy that have positive environmental impacts as eligible for the use of proceeds . In the F ramework, the Company explains to investors that it will use the proceeds for R&D and manufacturing of wind , hydrogen , and geothermal power generation facilities as well as business develop ment, investment and operation of such power plants , and its measures to reduce environmental risks associated with the eligible projects. 5 For detailed comments on alignment with ICMA GBP, please see Appendix 2 .,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 5 Moreover, MHI states in the Framework, that in case of refinancing an asset that requires long term maintenance throu gh the issuance of multiple green bonds, i t will disclose the asset’s age, and remaining useful life and the amount to be refinanced at the time of the respective green bond issuance . 2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection Yes In the F ramework, M HI demonstrate s its CSR and environmental policies and goals, which are expected to be achieved through the issuance of green bonds. Further more , the F ramework define s eligibility criter ia in the use of proceeds; and describes that its business divisions evaluate and select projects and that the final decision will be made by Chief Financial Officer after the F inance department confirms that the projects are aligned with eligibility criteria . 3. Management of Pro ceeds Yes The F inance department allocates and manages green bond proceeds and tracks the amount of allocated and unallocated proceeds regularly, at least once a year , until the maturity of the green bonds , using the Company’s internal management syste m . The Company describes in the F ramework that it intends to allocate all proceeds immediately after the issuance of the green bond and manage unallocated proceeds in cash or cash equivalents until full allocation. 4. Reporting Yes MHI demonstrate s i n the F ramework that it will disclose the allocation status of proceeds and environmental impact of the allocated projects on the Company's website annually. In the allocation reporting, the Company will report on t he amount of allocated proceeds , and amou nt or share of, allocation schedule for , and method to manage , unallocated proceeds, as well as, to the extent practicable , the overview of allocated projects with up - to - date progress , until the proceeds are fully allocated or in a timely manner even afte r all the proceeds are allocated i f the re are significant changes . In the impact reporting, the Company will report on, to the extent practicable, the annual amount of power generated (MWh), the annual amount of CO 2 reduced (tons), and progress in R&D by the renewable energ y /clean energy facilities funded by the green bond,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 6 proce eds , until the maturity of the green bonds. Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of MHI Contribution of framework to MHI ’s sustainability strategy In line with its corporate principles, MHI sets out a company - wide CSR policy 6 aimed at contributing toward solutions for global scale issues by delivering products and technologies as a diversified manufactur er . MHI is committed to ensuring sustainability through its business activities in accordance with the following policies and goals. ・ The Company, in its Medium - and Long - Term Initiatives , 7 has set out to provide solutions that contribute to decarbonization and is comm itted to supporti ng the decarbonization of energy through carbon abatement technologies integrated into thermal power generation and the provision of renewable energy solutions in the long - term business strategy for its Energy Systems business . 8 To reduce carbon emissions in thermal power generation, the Company has focused on the use of hydrogen as a fuel for power generation , and i n 2018 , MHI demonstrated hydrogen co - firing technology at a co - firing rate of 30 vol % in a natural gas - fired gas turbine. MHI is currently engaged in the development of 100% hydrogen mono - fuel combustion technology towards 202 5 . 9 10 The Company declared its commitment 11 to the development of the technology to contribute to the achievement of a decarbonized society, through the participation in “Challenge Zero,” 12 an initiative led by Japan Business Federation. In the US, MHI participates in the Advanced Clean Energy Storage project, which is designed to generate and store renewable hydrogen, and intends to supply the hydrogen generated there to the hydrogen - fired gas turbine power generation p roject, for which the Company has been awarded a contract. 13 The Company also offers and operates renewable energy - sourced (wind, geo thermal, hydro, and solar) power generation facilities. It places a particular focus on offshore wind power generation and has developed a strategy to strengthen relevant production systems and technical/geographical support to expand business scale. 14 Based on its Basic Policy on Environmental Matters, 15 MHI is committed to the reduction of environmental loads in all business activities. Under its Long - Term Environmental Target and the Fourth MHI Group Environmental Targets, 16 MHI aims to reduce the uni t CO 2 emissions by 16% by FY2030; and the unit CO 2 emissions, unit water consumption, and unit waste generation by 6%, respectively, by FY2020, from the FY2014 level. Considering the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Framework is aligned wi th its sustainability policies, goals, and initiatives, and will contribute to energy decarbonization, a long - term initiative of the Company. Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While Sustainalytics views that the wind, hydrogen, and geothermal power generation projects, which will be funded by the proceeds from the green bonds issued under the Framework, ha ve the potential to provide clear environmental benefits and contribute to the C ompany's environmental strategy and global climate change goals, Sustainalytics recognizes that construction and operation of large - scale power generation facilities may be associated with unintended environmental and social risks. Major environmental and social risks include 6 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “CSR Framework”, at: https://www.mhi.com/csr/management/flame.html 7 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “FY2019 Financial Results & Emergency Measures , Strategy Update ”, at: https://www.mhi.com/finance/library/result/pdf/200511/setsumei.pdf 8 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “Power Systems Business Plan”, at: https://www.mhi.com/finance/library/busin ess/pdf/ps2019.pdf 9 Mitsubishi Power, Ltd., ”MHPS to Participate in Hydrogen Conversion Project at Natural Gas GTCC Power Plant in the Netherlands -- Will Support Feasibility Study to Reduce Annual CO 2 Output by 1.3 Million Tons per Year”, at: https://power.mhi.com/news/20180308.html 10 Mitsubishi Power, Ltd., “Hydrogen Power Generation Handbook ”, at: https://power.mhi.com/catalogue/pdf/mhps_hydrogen_en.pdf 11 Challenge Zero, “Participating Members Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd.”, at: https://w ww.challenge - zero.jp/en/member/52 12 Challenge Zero, “Declaration on "Challenge Zero"”, at: https://www.challenge - zero.jp/en/declaration/ 13 Mitsubishi Power, Ltd., “ GTCC power project using hydrogen from renewable energy sources in Utah, USA Received the first order for an 840MW class hydrogen - fired JAC system for Intermountain Electric Power Company (IPA) (Japanese only) ”, at: https://power.mhi.com/jp/news/20200312.html 14 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “Power Systems Business Plan”, at: https://www.mhi.com/finance/library/business/pdf/ps2019.pdf 15 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “Environmental Management”, at: https://www.mhi.com/csr/environment/management.html 16 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “Environmental Management”, at: https://www.mhi.com/csr/environment/management.html,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 7 occupational safety and health of employees e ngaged in the manufacturing of power generation facilities, as well as loss of biodiversity, noise, and relationship s with neighboring residents associated with the operation of power plants. For the following reasons, Sustainalytics recognizes that MHI is well positioned to mitigate environmental and social risks: ▪ MHI has developed the “MHI Group Global Code of Conduct” 17 which states that all MHI Group companies should, on a regular basis, monitor company employees and activities for compliance with local laws in the country where they operate, and for observance of the Code of Conduct. According to the Code of Conduct, MHI has in place a policy of managing the mitigation of social and environmental risks associated with the use of the green bond proceeds , and the Company has committed to Sustainalytics that , for the operation of power plants including the case w here the company invest s in the business , it will confirm that environmental impact assessments as required by local laws and regulations of the relevant country or region, are duly carried out. ▪ MHI considers health and safety as the top priority for its business operation. It is determined to make continuous improvements and prevent work - related accidents in its power generation equipment manufacturing business, by setting, implementing, and assessing occupational safety goals based on the “MHI Group Heal th and Safety Policies.” 18 ▪ MHI is committed not only to complying with environmental laws and regulations through its “Basic Policy on Environmental Matters and Action Guidelines,” 19 which govern initiatives in R&D, manufacturing, and other business activi ties, but also to making continuous improvements to its environmental conservation activities by setting goals and establishing and implementing in - house assessment criteria. The Company is also determined to reduce environmental load by ensuring, for exam ple, pollution prevention, resource saving, energy saving, and waste generation control, in all areas of business activities, including product R&D, design, procurement of raw materials, manufacturing, transportation, consumption, service, and disposal. ▪ Ac cording to its “Basic Policy on Environmental Matters and Action Guidelines” and “MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines,” 20 the Company carries out biodiversity conservation activities at its business locations through, for instance, researches on the conservati on endangered species. 21 Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the use of proceeds related to r enewable energy / c lean e nergy , are projects that have the potential to provide environmental benefits . Sustainalytics explains why th e project catego ry produce s positive environmental impacts in Japan as follows: Contribution of 100% hydrogen - fired power generation to the realization of low carbon energy Hydrogen is considered as a clean energy that does no t emit CO 2 in its consumption stage and its use is increasing in various areas such as industry, transportation, buildings, and power generation. Hydrogen is produced by reforming fossil fuels such as natural gas, or through the electrolysis of water and other processes. Depending on the method, its production entail s the emission of greenhouse gases. However, in hydrogen production by electrolysis using electricity from renewable energy sources or in combination with CO 2 capture and storage (CCS) technology, the CO 2 emission in the production process may be reduced s ignificantly or even to zero. 22 The Framework specifies that MHI intends to allocate the proceeds to R&D and manufacturing of power generation facilities that are 100% fueled by hydrogen. Hydrogen is expected to contribute to the de carbonization of the power generation industry when it is used as a fuel, as it does not emit CO 2 at the time of combustion irrespective of the source material. When generating 1 kWh electricity by thermal power generation, the amount of direct CO 2 emissions from an average coal - fired power plant and an LNG thermal power plant is 864 g CO 2 and 341 to 476 g CO 2 , respectively. 23 On the other hand, a 100% hydrogen - fired power plant emits no CO 2 during the power gene ration. In the gas turbine power generation industry, there has 17 Mitsubishi H eavy Industries Group, “ MHI Group Code of Conduct ”, at: https://www.mhi.com/company/aboutmhi/policy/pdf/codeofconduct_en.pdf 18 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “ Occupational Health and Safety ”, at: https://www.mhi.com/csr/social/health.html 19 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “ Basic Policy on Environmental Matters and Action Guidelines ”, at: https://www.mhi.com/csr/environment/management.html 20 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “ CSR Action Guidelines ”, at: https://www.mhi.com/csr/management/flame.html 21 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, “ Biodiversity ”, at: https://www.mhi.com/csr/environment/biodiversity.html 22 International Energy Agency (IEA) , ” The Future of Hydrogen ” , a t : https://www.capenergies.fr/wp - content/uploads/2019/07/the_future_of_hydrogen.pdf 23 Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry , “ Comprehensive Life Cycle CO 2 Emissions Assessment of Power Generation Technologies in Japan (Japanese onl y)”, at: https://criepi.denken.or.jp/jp/kenkikaku/report/leaflet/Y06.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 8 been progress in the development of hydrogen co - firing technology, and further R&D efforts have been made for the establishment of a 100% hydrogen mono - fuel combustion technology. 24 Consider ing the fact that approximately 40% of Japan’s CO 2 emissions come from the power generation industry, and that 77% of the country‘s energy mix is accounted for by fossil fuel - based thermal power generation (including 38% by gas, 32% by coal, and 7% by oil and other fuels), 25 the reduction of CO 2 in thermal power generation, through the promotion of hydrogen power generation, will be an important measure for Japan’s long - term decarbonization strategies. Furthermore, in light of its ability to adjust as required the level of power generation (similar to thermal power generation), hydrogen is also expected to play a role in introducing renewable energ y in a large scale, as a flexible power source that complements renewable energy sources whose levels of power generation vary depending on the weather con ditions. 26 When it formulated the “Basic Hydrogen Strategy” 27 in 2017, the Japanese government showed its intention to establish technologies for the commercialization of hydrogen power generation by around 2030 and expand the share of hydrogen power gener ation in its energy mix. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that MHI's R&D and manufacturing of 100% hydrogen - fired power generation facilities , which are intended for the use of the green bond proceeds, will contribute not only to the a chievement of the Japanese government's goal of expanding the share of hydrogen power generation, but also to the de carbonization of the power generation industry, through the efforts to develop hydrogen power generation technologies. Contribution to address climate change by expanding introduction of wind and geothermal power MHI intends to allocate the proceeds to expenditures associated with R&D and manufacturing of wind and geothermal power generation facilities , as well as busines ses development, investment and operation of such power plants . T he Japanese government has set targets to reduc e GHG emissions by 26% by 2030 compared to 2013 level s 28 , and 80% by 2050 29 , and aims to develop renewable energy (zero - emission) sources as a primary source of power generatio n to achieve the reduction . 30 In 2015, the government compiled the “Long - term Energy Supply Demand Outlook,” 31 setting a goal of increasing the share of renewable energy - sourced electricity in the total power generation to 22% to 24% (including 1.7% by wind and 1.0 - 1.1% by geothermal), two times the 2010 level, by FY2030 , and identified the implementation of this energy mix as a key measure to support the achievement of its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) 32 under the Paris Agreement . Expanding the deployment of renewable energy sources is therefore essential to achieving Japan's climate goals. The introduc tion of renewable energ y has proceed ed rapidly , and accounted for as much as 16.9% of Japan’s total power mix in FY2018. 33 However, the share must be increased further as only about 37% of the FY2030 goals have been achieved for onshore wind and geothermal power generation as of March 2019. 34 Furthermore, in view of the slow implementation of offshore wind power generation, the government enacted the “Act on Promoting the Utilization of Sea Areas for the Development of Marine Renewable Energy Power Generation Facilities” (“Offshore Renewable Energy Act”) 35 in March 2019 with t he aim of promoting the use of offshore wind power by establishing rules on the utilization of Japan’s sea areas. 24 International Energy Agency (IEA) , ” The Future of Hydrogen ” , a t : https://www.capenergies.fr/wp - content/uploads/2019/07/the_future_of_hydrogen.pdf 25 Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, “ FY201 8 Energy Supply and Demand Report (Final Figures) (Japanese only)”, at: https://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/statistics /total_energy/pdf/stte_029.pdf 26 Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Strategy Council , “ The Strategic Road Map for Hydrogen and Fuel Cells ”, at: https://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2019/pdf/0312_002b.pdf 27 Ministerial Council on Renewable Energy, Hydrogen and Related Issues , “ Basic Hydrogen Strategy ”, at: https://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2017/pdf/1226_003b.pdf 28 “ Submission of Japan’s Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) ”, at: https://www.env.go.jp/press/files/jp/113675.pdf 29 Ministry of the Environment, “The Long - term Strategy under the Paris Agreement”, at: https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/The%20Long - term%20Strategy%20under%20the%20Paris%20Agreement.pdf 30 Minist ry of Economy, Trade and Industry, “Basic Energy Plan”, at: https://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2018/pdf/0703_002c.pdf 31 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, “Long - term Energy Supply and Demand Outlook”, at: http://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2015/pd f/0716_01a.pdf 32 “ Submission of Japan’s Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) ”, at: https://www.env.go.jp/press/files/jp/113675.pdf 33 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, “Cabinet Orders concerning the Act of Promoting Utilization of Sea Areas in Development of Power Generation Facilities Using Maritime Renewable Energy Resources Approved”, at: https://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2019/0315_003.html 34 Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, “ FY201 8 Energy Supply and Demand Report (Final Figures) ( Japanese only)”, at: https://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/statistics/total_energy/pdf/stte_029.pdf 35 Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, “Current State of Renewable Energy in Japan and Overseas and Draft Issues Proposed f or the Current Year by the Procurement Price Calculation Committee (Japanese only)”, at: https://www.meti.go.jp/shing ikai/santeii/pdf/046_01_00.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 9 Based on the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that MHI’s use of proceeds for R&D, manufacturing, businesses development, investment and operation of wind and geothermal power generation facilities will contribute to the introduction of said power sources, and thereby support the Jap anese government’s anti - climate change measures and generate positive environmental impacts. Alignment with/contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. This green bond advances the following SDG goal and target: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy/Clean Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Conclusion MHI has developed its Green Bond Framework with the intention of using the green bond proceeds to finance and/or refinance its renewable energ y / clean energy projects. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the use of proceeds set forth in this Framework will not only promot e the Company’s medium - to long - term initiatives and environmental goals but also contribute to the development of renewable energ ies /clean energies and the decarbonization of the energy sector at both a nationwide and global scale. MHI’s use of proceeds w ill also contribute to the achievement of climate change mitigation measures and energy policies undertaken by the Japanese government as well as to the promotion of SDG 7. The use of proceeds set forth in the Framewor k is a category and project with clear environmental benefits, as recognized by the GBP and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020. In its eligible criteria for the use of proceeds, the Framework provides certain thresholds for hydrogen and geotherm al power generation in addition to wind pow er generation. The Framework also outlines a process by which eligible projects are evaluated and selected and proceeds are managed by its F inance department, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocation status and quantitative environmental impact metrics. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Company’s policies for each core components are aligned with market practice. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Fra mework is aligned with the four core components of GBP and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2020, and is credible and transparent.,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 10 Appendices Appendix 1: Framework Overview For the purpose of issuing green bonds, MHI has developed the following Framework which addresses the four key core components of the GBP: use of proceeds, project evaluation and selection process, management of proceeds, and reporting, in September , 2020. The Framework belongs to MHI . 1. Use of proceeds The proceeds of the green bond will be allocated toward s new or existing businesses and /or projects that relate to the eligible businesses and /or projects described below. 1.1 Eligibility Criteria E ligible businesses and/or projects: Renewable energy / clean energy business (wind, hydrogen, and geothermal power generation facilities/businesses) Eligibility Criteria : Expenditures for, and refinancing of, the Group’s renewable ener gy / clean energy business (such as R&D funds, business development and operation funds, and working capital) that meet the following criteria:  Hydrogen power generation businesses and /or projects for 100% hydrogen combustion;  Geothermal power generation businesses and /or projects that emit less than 100g CO 2 /kWh;  Investments in corporations that are exclusively engaged in the renewable energy / clean energy business or generate at least 90% of their sales from renewable energy / clean energy - related business; and  The expendi ture for the business and/ or project was made within 7 years preceding the green bond issuance date. 2. Process for project evaluation and selection 2.1 Application of Eligibility and Exclusionary Criteria in Project Selection MHI ' s business division s select the businesses and /or projects to be funded by green bond proceeds , and the finance department then confirms the compliance with the eligibility criteria , and t he CFO will make the final decision. 2.2 Environmental Objectives The MHI Group Long - Term Environmental Target and the Fourth MHI Group Environmental Targets, which represent the Group's medium - term goals, were established at a meeting of the Environment Committee held in December 2017. The Long - Term Environmental Target is focused on reducing CO 2 by fiscal 2030, the same target year as the Paris Agreement. The Fourth MHI Group Environmental Targets aim for reduction in CO 2 emissions, more efficient water usage, and reduction in waste generation by fiscal 2020. MHI Group will work toge ther to achieve these goals in order to address the problem of climate change. 2.3 Process to Mitigate Environmental and Social Risks In executing projects, MHI is committed to the mitigat ion of environmental and social risks according to the eligibility criteria and contributing to the creation of a sustainable society in accordance with the Group's CSR framework. 3. Management of Proceeds MHI 's finance department manages the allocation of the green bond proceeds on a regular basis (at least once a year) , until the maturity of the green bond, using an internal management system. After the issuance of a green bond, the proceeds will be allocated e ntirely and immediately to eligible businesses and/or projects. Pending the allocation to eligible businesses and/or projects, the amount of unallocated proceeds will be held in cash or cash equivalents if the allocation requires a certain period of time.,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 11 4. Reporting MHI will annually report on the allocation of proceeds to eligible businesses and/or projects, management of proceeds, and social impact on its corporate website , or in a timely manner whenever any significant change occurs . The first report will be made publ ic within one year from the green bond issuance. 4.1 Allocation reporting Until the proceeds are fully allocated, MHI will provide information on the allocation of proceeds to businesses and/or projects that meet the eligibility criteria, on an annual basis. MHI will report on the following items to the extent practicable .  Status of allocation to eligible businesses and/or projects, overview with up - to - date progress  Amount or share of unallocated proceeds, allocation schedule, and the method to manage unallocated proceeds Moreover, in case of refinancing an asset that requires long - term maintenance through the issuance of multiple green bonds, MHI will disclose the asset’s age and r emaining useful life and the amount to be refinanced as at the time of the bond issuance. 4.2 Impact reporting Until the maturity of the green bond, MHI will provide, to the extent practicable, the following and other indices that indicate positive environmental impacts: Annual power generation (MWh) and annual CO 2 reduction (tons) of renewable ener gy / clean energy facilities related to the funded busines s, and information on their progress in R&D (such as the outline of projects participated in) 5. Annual Review The Company plans to allocate the proceeds immediately from the green bond issuance date, and will receive a review promptly from Sustainalytics as an external review provider to assess whether the eligible businesses and/or projects are in conformity with its Framework.,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 12 Append ix 2 : Green B ond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: October 23 , 2020 Publication date of review publication: Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBP: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detailed review Reviewe rs are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) :,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 13 The eligible category for the use of proceeds Renewable Energy/Clean Energy, is aligned with those recognized by the GBP. Sustainalytics considers that the eligible category will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Develop ment Goals, specifically SDG 7 - Affordable and Clean Energy. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBP ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBP: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): MHI’s business divisions will evaluate and select p rojects , and the F inance department then confirms that the projects are aligned with the eligibility criteria. Sustainalytics considers the Company’s project evaluation and selection process in line with market practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☒ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated wit h the project ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 14 Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The F inance department will track the amount of allocated and unallocated green bond proceeds regularly, at least once a year , using the Company’s internal management system. Unallocated proceeds will be held in a form of cash or cash equivalents. The Company intends to allocate green bond proceeds immediately after the bonds’ issuance. The Company’s management of proceeds is in line with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): MHI intends to report on the allocation of proceeds and environmental impacts, on its website on an annual basis. Allocation reporting will include the amount of allocated proceeds, amount or share of, allocation schedule for, and method to manage, unallocated proceeds, as well as the overview of projects for which the proceeds were allocated to the extent prac ticable . Impact reporting will include , the annual amount of power generated (MWh) and the annual amount of CO 2 emissions reduced (tons) by the renewable energy /clean energy facilities funded by the green bond proceeds, as well as the progress in R&D to th e extent practicable . The Company is also committed to obtaining annual reviews from an independent reviewer after the issuance of green bonds. Sustainalytics views that MHI’s commitment on reporting and annual reviews as aligned with market practice.,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 15 Use of proceeds reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☒ Other (please specify): O verview of funded p rojects with up - to - date progress, amount and share of, allocation schedule for, and the method to manage, unallocated proceeds . Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☒ Other (please specify): W henever any significant change occurs Impact reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify): T o the extent practicable , the annual amount of power generated (MWh) by the renewable energy /clean energy facilities funded by the green bond proceeds a nd progress in R&D . Frequency ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☒ Other (please specify): W henever any significant change occurs Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 16 T he Company’s website ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second - Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second - Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second - Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of proje cts intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with inte rnal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s intern al tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is norma lly tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluat ed or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 17 Disclaimer Copyright ©2020 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. The info rmation, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalytics, or provided that appropriate citation and acknowledgement is ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project; (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice or a prospect us; (3) cannot be interpreted as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor of its cred itworthiness; and/or (5) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up - to - dateness or fi tness for a particular purpose. The information and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the information, data or opinions contained herein, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsem ent by such owner. A list of our third - party data providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal - discl aimers . The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. This document is translated from the Japanese language. In case of discrepancies between the Japanese language and translated versions, the Japanese language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Green Bond Framework 18 About Sustainalytics , a Morningstar Company Sustainalytics , a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. The firm works with hundreds of the world’s leading asset manag ers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their investment processes. The world’s foremost issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, also rely on Sustainalyt ics for credible second - party opinions on green, social and sustainable bond frameworks. In 2020, Climate Bonds Initiative named Sustainalytics the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” for the third consecutive year. The firm was also re cognized by Environmental Finance as the “Largest External Reviewer” in 2020 for the second consecutive year. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com .