Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond Evaluation Summary S ustainalytics is of the opinion that the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond Framework is transparent, will create meaningful impact, and aligns with the Green Bond Principles 2017. Sustainalytics views the following elements of the Framework as key considerations: The MUFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond identifies renewable energy as an eligibility criterion, which is recognized by the ICMA Green Bond Principles as impactful. The projects will be evaluated and selected considering their alignment with the eligibility criteria by the environmental energy division. This is in line with market practice. The treasury department will, on a quarterly basis, track budgets and actual spend for all the eligible green projects by using its internal management file. This is in line with market practice. Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance has committed to reporting on amount of CO2 emissions reduce d by the eligible green projects as an impact metric, in addition to amount of power generation, which aligns with market practice. Evaluation date April 2, 2018 Issuer Locatio n Japan Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Overview of Issuer ................................ ....... 2 Framework Overview ................................ ... 3 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 6 Appendices ................................ .................. 9 For inquires , contact the Project Team : Trisha Taneja (Toronto) Senior Associate, Advisory Services trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com (+1) 647 317 3695 Wakako Mizuta (Tokyo) Associate, Advisory Services wakako.mizuta@sustainalytics.com (+81) 3 4510 7979,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 2 Introduction Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance has developed a green bond framework under which it plans to issue a green bond and use the proceeds to refinance loans that fund solar power generation projects in Japan. MUL has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second pa rty opinion on its framework and the framework’s environmental credentials. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance’s project teams to understand the sustainability impact of thei r business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance’s Green Bond Framework. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. Follo wing this engagement, some elements of the Green Bond Framework were clarified to ensure an alignment with the level of disclosure expected by ICMA’s Green Bond Principles, 2017. This document contains two sections: Framework Overview – summary of Mitsubi shi UFJ Lease & Finance’s Green Bond Framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. Overview of Issuer Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance was originally founded in 1971 as Diamond Lease and formed in 2007 through the merger with UFJ Cent ral Leasing. Through operations of offices, subsidiaries and affiliates in Japan, Asia, North America and Europe, the company actively engages in leases and finance business as well as service business including used equipment purchase and sales and asset management . It is a member of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group and headquartered in Tokyo, Japan. In its management philosophy, the company identifies environment as one of its core values, stating that it aims to “play a part in the development of regio ns and society by pursuing environmentally considerate corporate activities.” 1 Moreover, in accordance with its management philosophy, the company sets out an environmental policy with a commitment to promoting environmental preservation in every area of its business activities while achieving financial targets through leasing business 2 . Furthermore, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance, has developed a three - year medium - term management plan which began in fiscal 2017 and, aims to address social issues and im proving profitability through the integration of finance and business 3 . As part of key areas of business in the management plan, the company is committed to environment and energy business with four priority areas such as i) reinforcing the equity business of solar power generation area, ii) participating in businesses in renewable energy generation such as biomass/wind power, iii) operating business focused on energy service provider, as well as expanding its asset management and iv) fund business of solar power generation in order to address social issues related to environment and energy as well as contribute to sustainability. Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance has provided finance to renewable energy projects such as wind and solar power generation facili ties, as part of its environmentally conscious products. To further its commitment to environmental preservation, and to contribute to the environment - related fund business set out in the medium - term management plan, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance is pla nning to issue a green bond. 1 Management Philosophy ⁄ Code of Ethics, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance: http://www.lf.mufg.jp/english/corporate/idea/index.html 2 Environmental Policy (Japanese), Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance: https://www.lf.mufg.jp/corporate/csr/environment_top.html 3 New Medium - term Management Plan “Breakthrough for the Next Decade “, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance: http://www.lf.mufg.jp/english/investors/library/pressrelease/20170515_e2.pdf,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 3 Framework Overview For the purpose of issuing a green bond Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance has developed the following framework, which addresses the four key pillars of the Green Bond Principles (GBP): use of proceeds, project evaluation and selection process, management of proceeds, and reporting. 3.1 Use of Proceeds The proceeds of the gree n bond will be allocated towards refinancing loans that fund solar power generation projects and that meet the eligibility criteria described below. The eligibility criteria are defined by Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance to ensure that the projects mitiga te relevant environmental and social risks in accordance with MUL’s internal examination criteria. 3.1.1 Eligibility Criteria 1. RENEWABLE ENERGY – SOLAR POWER To be eligible for loans financed through the green bond proceeds, the projects funded must mee t all of the following eligibility criteria: I. Expenditures are associated with the development, construction and operation of a solar power facility located in Japan, II. A client (power producer), on the contract, has confirmed compliance of both the environ mental impact assessment and relevant regulations and law such as Japan’s Forest Act in construction and installation of the facility, where applicable, III. A client (power producer) has provided explanation to and obtained understanding of the local residents prior to construction and installation of the facility, and IV. A loan that has been provided within the last 24 months prior to the date of green bond issuance . 3.2 Project Evaluation and Selection Process Application of Eligibility and Exclusionar y Criteria in Project The projects refinanced through the proceeds had been evaluated for financial effectiveness by representatives from the sales department and from the environmental energy division, and the final decision had been made by an approver who hold positions from manager to board director levels, according to the amount of project’s expenditure. The projects will be evaluated and selected considering their alignment with the eligibility criteria by the environmental energy division. Sustaina bility Objectives Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance sets out an environmental policy, in line with its management philosophy, with four pillars : 1) Promotion of environmental preservation through every area of its business activities while achieving financ ial targets in leasing business, 2) Improvement of environmental performance by setting and reviewing the environmental targets, 3) Prevention of pollution through resources and energy saving and reduction of waste as well as promotion of waste reduction a nd resource recycling and reuse for completion of a property lease, and 4) compliance with the relevant laws, regulations and other requirements 4 . To realize the policy, it provides environment related - products and services inducing renewable energy finance, Energy Service Company (ESCO), purchase and sales of used equipment, and carbon offset programs. Furthermore, the company has recently created a three - year medium - term management plan beginning in fiscal 201 7 . As part of key areas of business in t he plan, the company committed to expanding its environmental and energy business while achieving four objectives: i) reinforcing the equity business of solar power generation, ii) participating in renewable energy businesses such as biomass and wind power , iii) expanding its asset management and fund business, and iv) increasing efforts with respect to its business operation focused on energy servic es provision. Mitsubishi UFJ Lease 4 Environmental Policy (Japanese), Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance: http://www.lf.mufg.jp/corporate/csr/environment_top.html,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 4 and Finance is committed to investing in renewable energy projects while achieving its objectives on the environment and energy business, 5 which helps to solve relevant environmental and social issues while improving its profitability. Process to Mitigate Environmental and Social Risks Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance has a n internal process to assess financial and non - financial risks and to confirm the va lidity of projects. As part of the process, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance, by the contract, checks and ensures that investees have a plan for environmental impact assess ment where required by the laws and regulations, and an agreement from local residents for development of projects . This stage has been integrated into the eligibility criteria for project selection, as described in section 3.1.1. As well as the above, MU FJ Lease and Finance will ensure that investees follow the relevant law and regulations through the contract. The requirements from those law and regulations include that the following steps are undertaken to avoid funding any solar power projects that may have environmental and social risks: • A facility must be compliance with the Feed - in T ariff Law for renewable energy 6 and the Business Plan ning Guidelines for Solar Power 7 , developed under the Revised Act on Special Measures Concerning Procurement of Electricity from Renewable Energy So urces by Electricity Utilities . 8 These regulations provide guidance on necessary measures including land and environmental assessment as well as other measures for environmental preservation. 3.3 Management of Proceeds The net proceeds of the green bond will be allocated and managed by the treasury department. The treasury department will, on a quarterly basis, track budgets and actual spend for all the eligible green projects by using its internal management file. In ad dition, pending the allocation to finance the eligible green projects, the amount equal to the balance of the proceeds will be temporally invested in cash and/or cash equivalents. 3.4 Reporting Allocation Reporting Throughout the term of the green bond, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance has committed to annually reporting on allocation of proceeds on its corporate website, until the proceeds are fully allocated to the eligible green projects. Reporting on the bond will include, subject to confidentiality c onsiderations, additional descriptions of select projects funded with green bond proceeds. Impact Reporting Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance has confirmed that impact reporting will be annually disclosed on its corporate website and will include the follo wing key performance indicators: • CO 2 emissions reduced by the eligible green projects (theoretical value based on output standard) • Amount of power generat ed by the eligible green projects (theoretical value based on output standard) 3.5 Compliance Review 5 Corporate Report 2017, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance: http://www.lf.mufg.jp/pdf/english/i nvestors/cr_en_2017.pdf 6 Promulgation of the Partial Revision of the Act on Special Measures Concerning Procurement of Electricity from Renewable Ener gy Sources by Electricity Utilities, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry: http://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2016/0603_06.html 7 Business Planning Guidelines (Japanese), Agency for Natural Resources and Energy: http://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/category/saving_and_new/saiene/kaitori/dl/fit_2017/legal/guideline_sun.pdf 8 Renewable Energy (Japanese), Agency for Natural Resources and Energy: http://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/category/saving_and_new/saiene/kaitori/fit_legal.html,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 5 Before the first anniversary of the green bond issuance, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance will engage Sustainalytics to review the lending financed by Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance’s green bond in order to assess the compliance of the lending with the framework of the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond. This review will be conducted annually until full allocation of the net proceeds from the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance ’s green bond. Sustainalytics will provide a report of the review, whic h Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance will publish on its website. In an unlikely event that the annual review identifies allocations made to activities that do not comply with the framework of the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond, Mitsubishi UFJ L ease and Finance will allocate the corresponding amounts to different lending activities that are compliant with the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond eligibility criteria .,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 6 Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond Framework Summary Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond Framework is transparent, will create meaningful impact, and aligns with the Green Bond Principles 2017. Sustainalytics views the following elements of the F ramework as key considerations: • Eligible criterion for the green bond, i.e. renewable energy, is recognized by ICMA’s Green Bond Principles as hav ing clear positive environmental impacts. • Sustainal ytics notes that management of proceeds and project selection process described in the framework aligns with market practice. • Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance has committed to reporting on amount of CO 2 emissions reduced by the eligible green projects as an impact metric, in addition to amount of power generation , which aligns with market standard. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2017: Sustainalytics has determined that the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance’s green bond aligns to the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2017. For detailed information please refer to Appendix B: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. S ection 2: Sustainability Strategy of the Issuer Contribution of framework to issuer’s sustainability strategy Sustainalytics has reviewed Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance’s environmental policy, its environment related products and services, its three - ye ar medium - term management plan (which began in fiscal 2017) and is confident that its Green Bond Framework aligns with the issuer’s commitments on further advancing its sustainability strategy . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the strength of MUFJ Lease and Finance’s environment commitment is derived from its environmental program as well as management plan. MUFJ Lease and Finance places a particular emphasis on its commitments for offering funding to companies that contribute to creating environmental impact through the development of renewable energy facilities including solar power . This is part of its objectives in the environment and energy business segment in its medium - term management plan 9 . Additionally , Mitsubishi UFJ L ease and Finance discloses the growth targets on the environment and energy business where the company plans an increase of 1 billion yen in the end of fiscal year 20 19 from the end of the fiscal year 201 6 . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that providing d isclosure on targets is indicative of the priority the company assigns to achieving results. Given the considerations above, Sustainalytics believes that issuer is well position to issue a green bond , and that MUFJ Lease and Financing’s Green Bond will c ontribute to its sustainability targets and commitments. 9 New Medium - term Management Plan “Breakthrough for the Next Decade “, Mitsubishi U FJ Lease & Finance: http://www.lf.mufg.jp/english/investors/library/pressrelease/20170515_e2.pdf,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 7 Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects The development of solar power facilities can carry environmental and social risks, such as unintentional land degradation, pollution, and negative impacts on nearby communities. Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance’s Green Bond Framework outlines that the company assesses non - financial risks during assessing financial risks. These processes ensure a plan of environmental impact assessment where required by the laws and regulations and understanding of the local residents, which helps to mitigate environmental risks and some of social risks. Additionally, the framework confirms that the company, thro ugh the contract, ensures the investees’ compliance with the revised Feed - in Tariff (FIT) scheme and Business Planning Guidelines for Solar Power, which details requirements on complying items such as environmental prevention relevant laws and regulations for power producers. Sustainalytics has performed an assessment of the requirements of Feed - in Tariff (FIT) scheme and the Business Planning Guidelines for Solar Power and concludes that the processes where the Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Fi n ance ensures comp liance with the relevant laws and regulations that include the revised Feed - in Tariff (FIT) scheme and Guideline by the contract are sufficient to mitigate environmental and social risks . Given these processes , Sustainalytics is confident that the project investees will ensure and confirm compliance with the relevant environment and social laws and will be well positioned to identify and mitigate potential environmental risks, reducing potential liabilities to Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Fi n ance. For more deta ils on the environmental and social assessments performed, and Sustainalytics’ assessment, please see Appendix A. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds Impact of Solar Power in Japan Japan is one of the world’s major importers of natural energy such as o il, coal and natural gas (LNG) due to its lim ited domestic energy resources 10 and mainly depends on its imported energy to meet its energy use. Furthermore, before the great earthquake in 2011, Japan, in addition to natural resources, heavily depended on nu clear energy as a nationa l strategic priority since 1973 11 . However, the strategy came under review following the earthquake and subsequent Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster and a new strategi c energy plan for outlook 2030 12 was introduced by the government in 2015. Under the plan, the dependency of nuclear energy is to be reduced from 28% of the 2010 level to 20 – 22% in 2030 while renewable energy is increased from 1.1% to 22 – 24% 13 , considering improving the self - sufficiency rate and reducing CO2 emission s 14 . The solar power has also become one of important resources among renewable energy in the plan. It sets out solar power generation as 7% for the 2030 outlook, which is the second largest amount among renewable energy sources, while hydroelectric power i s to 8.8 to 9.2%, biomass power is to 3.7 to 4.6%, wind power is to 1.7%, and geothermal power is 1.0 to 1.1%. Although there are concerns on solar power in Japan, such as relying heavily on it as a single renewable source and declin ing the price of its ge neration 15 , solar power generation can help to reduce the dependency of natural resources use and greenhouse gas in Japan while the strategic energy plan also recognizes solar power as one of reliable energy resources considering its characteristics. Given the context, solar power can have environmentally positive impact to generate energy in order to meet Japan’s energy use as well as to achieve the government’s strategy on 2030 energy supply and demand outlook . 10 County Analysis Brief: Japan, U.S. Energy Information Administration: http://www.iberglobal.com/files/2017/japon_eia.pdf 11 Nuclear Power in Japan, Word Nuclear Association: http://www.world - nuclear.org/information - library/country - profiles/countries - g - n/japan - nuclear - power.aspx 12 Long - term Energy Supply and Demand Outlook, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry: http://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2015/pdf/0716_01a.pdf 13 J apan’s Energy, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Agency for Natural Resour ces and Energy: http://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/en/category/brochures/pdf/japan_energy_2016.pdf 14 Long - term Energy Supply and Demand Outlook, Ministry of Economy, Tra de and Industry: http://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2015/pdf/0716_01a.pdf 15 Balance of power: Shift toward renewable energy appears to be picking up steam, the Japan Times: https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2017/10/14/business/balance - power - shift - toward - renewable - energy - appea rs - picking - steam/#.WmGRV6iWaUk,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 8 Alignment with SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. This green bond advances the following SDG goals and targets: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Conclusion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance’s Green Bond Framework is transparent and provides clarity regarding use of proceeds, which will contribute to the production of renewable energy, reducing greenhouse gas emission and the dependency of limited natural resou rces. Sustainalytics has also performed an assessment on the required social and environmental impact considerations, and considers that the company has sufficient processes to address environmental and social negative impacts. Furthermore, the management of proceeds and project selection process align with market expectations. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that The Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance’s Green Bond Framework aligns with the Green Bond Principles 2017, is line with its four pillars as well as is credible and robust and thus has a positive view on the framework.,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 9 Appendices Appendix A: Overview and assessment of Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance’s Requirements Towards a client (power producer) Background Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance, through the contract, requires its client (power producer) to confirm the relevant project(s) is in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations which include requirements by the Feed - in Tariff Law for renewable energ y and the Business Planning Guidelines for Solar Power 16 , developed under the Revised Act on Special Measures Concerning Procurement of Electricity from Renewable Energy Sources by Electricity Utilities 17 . Areas of assessment Business Planning Guidelines for Solar Power was developed with an aim of ensuring appropriate business of renewable energy power generation, and it details items required and recommended to solar power producers. The Guidelines lay out guidance in processes of plan, design, construct ion, operation/management, and removal of facilities, as well as the list of requirements by the Feed - In Tariff Law. Some areas of environmental and social relevant assessment (including required and recommended items) concerned in the guidelines include: • (Required by the Feed - In Tariff Law) Complying with the provisions of relevant laws (including ordinance) in implementing the renewable energy generation project and removing the facilities, some of which include Landscape Law, Natural Environment Conserv ation Act, Forest Law, Act on Conservation of Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, Noise Regulation Act, Protection and Control of Wild Birds and Mammals and Hunting Management Law, Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act, and Act on Protection of Cultural Properties • (Recommended) Assessing land and surrounding environment according to relevant laws and regulations, some of which include considerations for protection of water resources, natural revegetation, and protection of rare endangered specie s • (Required) Proceeding with environmental impact assessment or the relevant documents where required by regulations of local government • (Recommended) Selecting appropriate land and establishing development plan from the view of environmental conservation • (Recommended) Obtaining understanding of the residents with respect to the business by providing explanatory meeting to explain the overview of business and impact on environment and landscape • (Recommended) Designing appropriate land development consideri ng environmental conservation, which includes prevention of water turbidity from water resources • (Recommended) Designing power generation facility considering environmental conservation • (Recommended) Adopting appropriate measures to avoid giving impact to residents and surrounding environment by operation sound of facility in design and construction 16 Business Planning Guidelines (Japanese), Agency for Natural Resources and Energy: http://www.enecho.met i.go.jp/category/saving_and_new/saiene/kaitori/dl/fit_2017/legal/guideline_sun.pdf 17 Renewable Energy (Japanese), Agency for Natural Resources and Energy: ht tp://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/category/saving_and_new/saiene/kaitori/fit_legal.html,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 10 • (Recommended) Confirming at any time whether measures concerning disaster prevention, facility safety, environmental conservation, landscape preservation are p roperly implemented as planned • (Recommended) Taking appropriate measures and considering disaster prevention and natural environment for neighborhood , in case unexpected problems occur in the planning stage • (Required) Recycling in compliance with Construction Material Recycling Law and complying with requirements for discharging undertaker defined under Waste Disposal Law Sustainalytics’ view Although most items described in the Business Planning Guidelines are recommended, Sustainalytics considers that the Feed - In Tariff Law and the Guidelines cover relevant requirements for power producers to ensure compliance with environment and social laws in addition to environmental impact assessment where required by regulations of local government. Sustainalytics views that, through the compliance with the guidelines, the power investees will have sufficient due diligence to address common environment a nd social risks associated with the projects.,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 11 Appendix B: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form Green Bond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: March 16 , 2018 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an update and add reference to earlier relevant review] April 2, 2018 Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The revi ew assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to Green Bond Framework and Second Opinion Document above.,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 12 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Sustainalytics is of the opinion that all the use of proceeds outlined by Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance are recognized as eligible by the Green Bond Principles 2017, and have a clear environme ntal benefit specifically in the context of Japan. Proceeds of the bonds will be used to refinance in lending to solar power generation projects. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): The projects refinanced through the proceeds had been evaluated for financial effectiveness by representatives from the sales department and from the environmental energy division, and the final decision had been made by an approver who hold positions from manager to board director levels, according to the amount of project’s expenditure. The projects will be evaluated and selected considering the alignment with the eligibility criteria by the environmental energy division. Considering the processes above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that this is in line with market norms. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 13 ☐ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The net proceeds of the green bond will be allocated and managed by the treasury department. The treasury department will, on a quarterly basis, track budgets and actual spend for all the eligible green projects by using its internal management file. In ad dition, pending to the allocation to finance the eligible green projects, the amount equal to the balance of the proceeds will be temporally invested in cash and/or cash equivalents. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that this is in line with market norms. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☐ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☐ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☒ Other (please specify) : Allocation to refinance existing investment only 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable):,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 14 Allocation Reporting Throughout the term of the green bond, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance has committed to annually reporting on allocation of proceeds on its corporate website, until the proceeds are fully allocated to the eligible green projects. Reporting of the bond will include, subject to confidentiality considerations, additional descriptions of select projects funded with green bond proceeds. Impact Reporting Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance has confirmed that impact reporting will be annually disclosed on its corporate website and will include the following key perfor mance indicators: • CO2 emissions reduced by the eligible green projects (theoretical value based on output standard) • Amount of power generation by the eligible green projects (theoretical value based on output standard) Sustainalytics is of the opinion that reporting is in line with market norms. Use of proceeds reporting: ☒ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Means of Disclosure,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 15 ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): Corporate website ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Consultant Review: An issuer can seek advice from consultants and/or institutions with recognized expertise in environmental sustainability or other aspects of the issuance of a Green Bond, such as the establishment/review of an issuer’s Green Bond framework. “ Second Party Opinion s” may fall into this category. ii. Verification: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework, or underlying assets independently ver ified by qualified parties, such as auditors. In contrast to certification, verification may focus on alignment with internal standards or claims made by the issuer. Evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against an external green assessment standard. An assessment standard defines criteria, and alignment with such criteria is tested by qualified third parties / certifiers. iv. Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework rated by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies. Green Bond ratings are separate from an issuer’s ESG rating as they typically apply to individual securities or Green Bond frameworks / programmes.,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 16 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 2018 . All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics. The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and responsible. Consequently, th is Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. As the Opinio n is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation and monitoring.,Framework Overview and Second Party Opinion Mitsubishi UFJ Lease and Finance Green Bond 17 Sustainalytics Sustain alytics is an independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analysis firm supporting investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who integrate environmental, social and governance information and assessments into their investment processes. Today, the firm has more than 300 staff members, including 170 analysts with varied multidisciplinary expertise of more than 40 sectors. Through the IRRI survey, investors selected Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms fo r both ESG and Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com