© Sustainalytics 201 9 Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB “Lettres de Gage Renewable Energy” Green Bond Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the N ORD /LB Luxembourg S.A. Covered Bond Bank (“NORD/LB CBB ”) Green Bond Framework is credible and impa ctful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018. This assessment is based on the following: The use of proceeds categor ies ( R enewable E nergy , and Transmission and Energy Storage ) are recognized by the Gr een Bond Pri nciples 2018 as impactful . Sustainalytics believes that the eligible projects in this category will contribute to reducing GHG emissions . lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goal 7: Affordable and C lean Energy and 13: Action to combat climate change and its impact . N ORD /LB CBB ’s internal process in evaluating and selecting projects i s handles by the NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Committee (the “Committee”) . The Committee is responsible for ensuring projects that are selected are in line with the eligibility criteria set within the Framework. The Committee is responsible for adding/removing projects from the eligible project portfolio and/or any necessary changes/updates to t he Framework. The Committee meets at least annually. This process is aligned with market practice. N ORD /LB CBB’s processes for management of proceeds i s managed by the Committee. Proceeds will be allocated using a portfolio appro ach . The Committee will strive to ensure that eligible assets meet or exceed the outstanding volume of green debt and will replace projects that fall out of eligi bility with new assets immediately . This process is aligned with market practice. N ORD /LB CBB intends to prepare regular reports on both allocation and impact along with an annual N ORD /LB Group Sustainability Report, all of which will be made available on the website . Allocation reporting will include a full breakdown of allocation on a project portfolio basis , country and currency as well as financing vs refinancing, current volume and financing share, loan term/maturity and unallocated amounts. NORD /LB CBB will report on relevant impact metrics. This is in line with market practice. S ustainalytics also notes that NORD/LB CBB will seek third - party verification of its allocation reporting, which is viewed as a best practice approach. Evaluation date September 30, 2019 Issuer Locatio n Luxembourg Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ .................. 8 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Zach Margolis (Toronto) Project Manager zach.margolis@sustainalytics.com (+1) 647 695 4341 Jonathan Laski ( Toronto ) Project Support jonathan.laski @sustainalytics.com ( +1 ) 647 264 6640 Evan Bruner (Amsterdam) Project Support evan.bruner@sustainalytics.com ( + 31 ) 20 205 0027 Jean - Claude Berthelot (Amsterdam) Client Relations susfinance.emea@sustainalytics.com ( +44 ) 20 3880 0193,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 2 Introduction N ORD /LB Luxembourg S.A. Covered Bond Bank (“NORD/LB CBB ”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of NORD/LB Group (the “Group”) that provides banking services and products including loans, financial markets and sales. NORD/LB CBB has over 10 years of experience in t he public finance sector and issu es covered bonds in accordance with Luxembourg law and has decided to leverage this expertise in order to issue Green Covered Bonds for renewable energy assets. N ORD /LB CBB has developed the N ORD /LB CBB Green Bond Framew ork (the “Framework”) under which it intends to issue green covered bonds and use the proceeds to finance/refinance, in whole or in part, existing/future projects that support a transition to a low - carbon and climate resilient economy. The Framework define s eligibility criteria in two areas: 1. Renewable energy – Financing of the purchase, design, construction, development and/or installation of on - and offshore wind power, and solar power 2. Transmission and energy storage – Financing for the connection, tra nsmission, transformation and storage of renewable energy N ORD /LB CBB engaged Sustainalytics to review the Framework, dated September 2019 , and provide a second - party opinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP 2018 ) . 1 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 2 As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of N ORD /LB CBB’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of t heir business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of N ORD /LB CBB’s green bond. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainaly tics’ opinion of the N ORD /LB CBB Framework and should be read in conjunction with th at F ramework. 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ 2 The N ORD LB CBB Lu xembourg Green Bond Framework “ Lettres de Gage Renewable Energy ” is available on the bank’s website at: www.nordlb.lu,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 3 Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the N ORD /LB CBB Green Bond Framework Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the N ORD /L B CBB Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of N ORD /LB CBB ’s G reen B ond F ramework :  Use of Proceeds: - The use of proceeds c ategor ies – renewable energy and transmission and energy storage – are recognized as impactful by the GBP 2018. - The Green Bond Framework specifies that the g r een covered bonds may provide financing for the “ purchase, design, construction, development and/ or installation ” of renewable energy projects:  Eligible projects are defined as on - and offshore wind and solar power projects . Sustainalytics considers these technologies, when developed with appropriate environmental assessments, to deliver positive imp acts ;  N ORD /LB CBB has confirmed that by “purchase”, they do not intend to finance Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) as eligible projects themselves ; - The Framework also defines as eligible the “ connection, transmission, transformation and storage of renewabl e energy ” .  For these assets, at least 50% of energy stored and/or transmitted in eligible projects will be renewable energy. This is the minimum requirement in Article 12 - 3 of the Luxembourg Financial Sector Act (2018) . 3 Sustainalytics views positively th is use of a quantitative threshold and the reference to regulatory statute.  Sustainalytics notes it is possible that fossil fuel electricity may be served by these infrastructure assets, which is a slight limitation to the Framework. However, as confirmed by NORD/LB CBB, there is currently no fossil fuel related projects within its renewable energy cover pool portfolio. Additionally , Sustainalytics notes the clear goal of the eligible projects is to support renewable energy ; these projects will not result i n a “ lock - in ” of fossil fuel use ; and , therefore, Sustainalytics is the opinion that financing investments of this type supports the further integration of renewable energy .  Project Evaluation and Selection: - N ORD /LB CBB has establish ed a Green Bond Commi ttee to review projects for inclusion in the Green Covered Bond. The Committee is composed of the following representatives : the Head of Financial Markets & Loans , a representative of the Treasury Department ; the Head of Finance or representative of the Tr ustee Service; and a representative from the sustainability office. The Committee will meet as required , and on at least an annual basis , to ensure compliance with the commitments described in the Framework . Sustainalytics considers the above process to be in line with market practice.  Management of Proceeds: - N ORD /LB CBB ’s green covered bond will be manage d by the Committee using a portfolio approach. N ORD /LB CBB will aim to ensure that assets in eligible projects exceed the outstanding volume of the Green Covered Bonds and will replace projects that no longer satisfy the eligibility criteria of the Framework. - The Luxembourg Financial Sector Act also requires renewable energy assets to be maintained as a separate cover pool, independent of other Issuer ass ets, as well as for N ORD /LB CBB to maintain at least 2 per cent overcollateralization. - Sustainalytics recognizes that , pending full allocation, NORD/LB CBB may add temporary investments to the cover pool in the form of bonds (limited up to 20% of the cove r pool portfolio) which have to be predominantly secured by eligible project type s . As needed, the cover pool may also temporarily include substitute assets (limited up to 20% of the outstanding Green Covered 3 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Official Journal, http://data.legilux.public.lu/file/eli - etat - leg - loi - 2018 - 06 - 22 - a521 - jo - fr - pdf.pdf,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 4 Bonds) . These temporary uses of proceeds are in accordance with the Luxembourg Financial Sector A ct. S ustainalytics is satisfied that NORD/LB CBB will prioritize full allocation of the bonds with eligible assets. - Sustainalytics considers N ORD /LB CBB’s plan to manage proceeds to be in line with market p ractice and notes positively that the above - mentioned legislation add s additional layers of assurance through regulatory compliance . Furthermore, Sustainalytics highlights NORD/LB CBB’s intent to pursue third - party verification of its allocatio n.  Reportin g: - N ORD /LB CBB will provide both allocation and impact reporting on a portfolio basis.  Allocation reporting will be made available quarterly, and will provide information including total amount of assets financed, share of financing versus refinancing, br eakdown by technology type, currency, country, credit rating, loan terms/maturity and unallocated amounts. In addition, a cover pool reporting will be made available quarterly, in line with the requirements of Transparency Circular CSSF 18/706 4 .  Impact r eporting will be made available annually, and where feasible will include quantitative indicators such as total installed generation capacity (MW) , estimated annual energy production (MWh) , total added energy transmission capacity (MW) , and greenhouse gas emissions avoided. - Based on the commitment to both allocation and impact reporting, including quantitative KPIs, Sustainalytics considers the reporting to be in line with market practice. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has dete rmined that the N ORD /LB CBB’s G reen B ond Framework aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 1 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Pe rformance of NORD/LB CBB Contribution of framework to NORD/LB CBB sustainability strategy N ORD /LB CBB ’s sustainability strategy comes from the S ustainability S t rategy 2020 of NORD/LB Group , 5 which focus es on the impact of its own operations and business on all relevant stakeholders . Sustainability decisions are made by the Group Managing Board of N ORD /LB, with the support of the Sustainability Management Division and Sustainability Control Committee . Within NORD/LB CBB, the Sustainability Management is es tablished with direct reporting to the management board. The Group’s strategic direction is guided by a systematic approach to sustainability to ensure that sustainability aspects are considered in its business activities . This includes a set of exclusion ary criteria preventing investment into a variety of controversial activities 6 and a framework of sustainability guidelines intended to establish a link between individual transactions and relevant sustainability standards that have been established by the Group . T he overall intent is to ensure that sustainability can be managed on an individual project basis in a targeted manner. Some relevant gui delines include the following: 7  Guideline on the Environmental Impact of Corporate Activities o The intent of th is guideline is to ensure that all environmental impact s of the Group’s business activities is measured, addressed and managed by the Group’s Corporate Environmental M anagement Function , which is based on the requirements of ISO 14001.  Guideline on Climat e Change o This guideline serves as the framework for achieving the German climate goals . Through the application of this guidelines, NORD/LB considers climate change impact for its market 4 Published by Luxembourg’s Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier, Circular CSSF 18/706 “Re: Transparency requirement s based on Article 12 - 6 (2) of the Law of 22 June 2018” provides transparency requirements for covered bond banks. Se e: http://www.cssf.lu/fileadmin/files/Lois_reglements/Circulaires/Hors_blanchiment_terrorisme/cssf18_706eng.pdf. 5 NORD/LB, “Group Sustainability Strategy 2020”, (2018), at: https://www.nordlb.com/fileadmin/redaktion_en/branchen/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/NORDLB_Sustainability_Strategy.pdf 6 Transactions that clearly violate fundamental principles of sustainable development, such as transacti ons in connection with controversial weapons or pornography, are identified and rejected using exclusion criteria. 7 NORD/LB, “Sustainability Report 2018”, (2019), at: https://www.nordlbcbb.lu/page/docManager/docs/559/NORDLB%20Sustainability_Report_2018.pdf,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 5 partners and society , specifically by focusing on opportunities and r isks, creating transparency for further development as well as for assessment analysis and monitoring. With regards to its own operational footprint, the Group tracks and reports on annual energy consumption and GHG emissions. Between 2017 to 2018, both electricity consumption and GHG emissions decreased by approximately 9%, though GHG emissions per employee rose compared to 2017 . Additionally, since 2013 , NORD/LB has prepared annual Group Sustainability Reports based on the Global Reporting Initiative (G RI) standards. 7 Sustainalytics notes that, while the Group’s 2018 Sustainability Report discloses the total number of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects that have been financed, the Group has not es tablished any quantitative, time - bound targets and it is unclear how much additional renewable energy capacity or energy efficiency the Group has added. Sustainalytics encourages NORD/LB CBB to establish time - bound sustainability targets to connect the pos itive environmental outcomes achieved through its financing activities to its corporate goals. Based on the sustainability strategy and guidelines mentioned above , Sustainalytics believes that N ORD /LB CBB is well positioned to issue green bonds and that i ts green bonds will further N ORD /LB CBB’s overall sustainability strategy. Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects Sustainalytics recognizes the overall positive environmental impact of renewable ener gy related projects but acknowledges that such projects have common environmental and social risks that must be mitigated . Some key environmental and social risks associated with the eligible projects include occupational health and safety, community/stake holder engagement , land - use change and biodiversity loss. NORD/LB CBB recognizes the importance of mitigating potential environmental and social impacts related to its activities . For example, regarding potential direct environmental impacts from business activities , the Group follows both its Guideline on the Environmental Impact of Corporate Activities and its Guideline on Operational Environmental P rotection. T hese two internal guidelines ensure that the impacts of projects on the environment are monito red and assessed in line with the Group’s environmental management system (EMS), which is based on ISO 14001 standards . For example, identification and evaluation of significant environmental impacts, especially in the planning phase of projects , is a key requirement. 8 Sustainalytics views adherence to ISO 14001 as evidence of a robust EMS and adequate for mitigating potential negative environmental impacts associated with the renewable energy projects that will be financed . Furthermore, potential indirect environmental impact s of business activities are further managed at the department level and by individual employees . Regarding specifically indirect impacts from activities in high - income OECD countries, which include those that will be financed by the Gr een Covered Bonds, the Group operates based on the assumption that these countries have adequate regulations in place to mitigate environmental impacts. Sustainalytics notes that this approach is consistent with that of the Equator Principles, wh ich lists Designated Countries in which regulatory measures sufficiently address risk mitigation, and also recognizes that the Group has specific processes in place for risk mitigation of any business activities in non - high - income OECD countries, which may involve i ndividual departments or the Compliance and Sustainability Management team s . Occupational health and safety (OHAS) protection was identified by the Group as a material topic in their materiality analysis. The Group recognizes tha t importance of OHAS and that it can only b e successful if its workforce is productive, well - trained , motivated and healthy. The Group is committed to continuously reviewing is corporate health management (CHM) strategy and has implemented a variety of health and safety policies , procedures and indicators to ensure a health working environment for all employees. The Group has outlined a number of goals targeted at improving working conditions an d improve personal health and safety for staff . Although the Group saw a 0.5% increase i n illness rate from 2017 (5.3%) to 2018 (5.8%) , there is a clear intent and strategy to promote healthy and safe working conditions. Regarding community engagement, the Group has established a social commitment to ensure that it is not only focusing on su pporting business and infrastructure, but also facilitating positive community relations and supporting community projects. The Group has stated that because its specific business activities and the locations where the Group is active , “no negative effects are expected on local communities” . However, Sustainalytics notes that there is an absence of a policy for the inclusion of local communities in stakeholder 8 14001 Academy, “Clause - by - clause explanation of ISO 14001: 2015”, (2016), at: https://info.advisera.com/14001academy/free - download/clause - by - clause - explanation - of - iso - 140012015,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 6 consultations and since 2016, the Bank’s community contributions have declined by over 33 %. Sustai nalytics encourages further disclosure of community relations . Based on the above - mentioned policies and procedures at the Group level , Sustainalytics is confident that NORD/LB CBB has adequate social and environmental policies in place to mitigate potent ial negative impacts . As such , Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NORD/LB CBB is well - positioned to issue green bonds. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds The green use of proceeds categor ies are recognized as impactful by the GBP 2018 . Sustainalytic s has focused below on how the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. The role of renewable energy in achieving climate goals In order to achieve the commitments of the Paris Agreement, to limit global average temperature increases to well below 2°C and aim to limit the increase to 1.5°C , drastic decreases to global emissions will be required. 9 Considering that greenhouse gas emissions from electricity and heat production made up approximately 49% of total fuel combustion in 2014, 10 increasi ng the share of renewable energy generation has the potential to significantly impact meeting climate goals. According to the International Renewable Energy agency (IRENA), the total share of renewable energy must rise to approximately 66% of the total pri mary energy supply (TPES) by 2050 in order to meet the 2°C target. 11 Although renewable energy grew more rapidly than other forms of energy generation in 2017 , meeting a quarter of the global demand growth, 12 this rate of deployment must be ramped up to meet international targets. The European Union has set a number of relevant renewable energy and GHG emission reduction targets for 2020 and 2030. The EU renewable energy target for 2020 is for 20% of total energy consumption to come from renewables 13 and the EU has passed a binding target of 32% of total energy consumption from renewables by 2030. 14 The EU has also committed to reduce GHG emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2030. In 2017, 17.5% of total energy consumption came from renewables. 15 The EU consid ers itself on target to achieve the 2020 goal. Further investment in renewable energy generation is required to meet the 2030 target. Alongside investment in generation facilities, investments in the connection, transmission and storage of renewable energy will also be required. In this context, NORD LB/CBB’s financing will be impactful, and support the achievement of these targets. The role of financial institutions in supporting a transition to a low carbon economy The United Nations Environment Progra mme – Finance Initiative (UNEP - FI) states that “bank loans are the most important source of external finance for companies and will play a crucial role in steering businesses towards lower emission activities.” 16 N ORD /LB CBB ’s Framework to finance and /or re finance on shore and offshore wind and solar power projects throughout the E U member states and elsewhere will support the likelihood of the EU 2030 target being reached. Therefore, Sustainalytics believes that supporting investments in renewable energy p rojects across the EU will promote low carbon growth. Alignment with/contribution to SDGs 9 European Commission, Paris Agreement: https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/international/negotiations/paris_en 10 World Bank Group, CO 2 emissions from electricity and heat production: https://data.worldbank.org /indicator/EN.CO2.ETOT.ZS . 11 IRENA, Global Energy Transformation: https://www.irena.org/ - /media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2018/Apr/IRENA_R eport_GET_2018.pdf 12 IEA, Global Energy & CO2 Status Report - 2017: https://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/GECO2017.pdf 13 Renewable energy i s defined in the EU Directive 2009/28/EC as “energy from renewable non - fossil sources, namely wind, solar, aerothermal, geothermal, hydrothermal and ocean energy, hydropower, biomass, landfill gas, sewage treatment plant gas and biogases”, https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32009L0028&from=EN . 14 European Commission, “2030 climate & energy framework”, https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/strategies/2030_en . 15 European Commission, “Renewable Energy Statistics”, https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics - explained/index.php/Renewable_energy_statistics#Wind_power_becomes_the_most_important_renewable_source_of_electricity . 16 United Nations Environm ent Programme (UNEP), “Financial Institutions Taking Action on Climate Change”, https://www.unepfi.org/fileadmin/documents/FinancialInstitutionsT akingActionOnClimateChange.pdf,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 7 The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. This green bond advan ces the following SDG goals and targets: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix 7.3 By 2030, double the glob al rate of improvement in energy efficiency 13. Action to combat climate change and its impact 13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning Conclusion NORD/LB Luxembourg S.A. Covered Bond Bank has developed a Green Bond Framework, under which it intends to issue green c overed bonds use the proceeds to loans to eligible renewable energy and transmission and energy storage projects . Sustainalytics highlights that NORD/LB CBB’s green covered bonds will be issued in line with Article 12 - 3 of the Luxembourg Financial Sector Act (2018). Sustainalytics is further of the opinion that the initiatives described by the Framework will advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals, in particular Goals 7 and 13 . Sustainaly tics anticipates that the financing of renewable energy and storage/transmission projects as per the Framework will provide environmental benefits and support the achievement of climate goals mainly in Europe . In addition, NORD/LB CBB ’s processes for proje ct evaluation and selection as well as management of proceeds and reporting are aligned with market practice. Based on the above, Sustainalytics considers the NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework to be robust, credible and transparent, and in alignment with the four core components of the ICMA’s Green Bond Principles 2018.,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 8 Appendices Appendix 1 : Green Bond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: N ORD /LB CBB Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] N ORD /LB CBB Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: September 30, 2019 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an update and add reference to earlier relevant review] Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignmen t with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : No te: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above.,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 9 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewer s are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The use of proceeds categories (Renewable Energy, and Transmission and Energy Storage) are recognized by the Green Bond Principles 2018 as impactful. Sustainalytics believes that the eligible projects in this category will contribute to reducing GHG emissions. lead to positive environmental impacts and ad vance the UN Sustainable Development Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy and 13: Action to combat climate change and its impact. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustai nable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable ): NORD/LB CBB’s internal process in evaluating and selecting projects is handles by the NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Committee (the “Committee”). The Committee is responsible for ensuring projects that are selected are in line with the eligibility criteria se t within the Framework. The Committee is responsible for adding/removing projects from the eligible project portfolio and/or any necessary changes/updates to the Framework. The Committee meets at least annually. This process is aligned with market practice . Evaluation and selection,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 10 ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☒ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accounta bility ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : NORD/LB CBB’s processes for management of proceeds is managed by the Committee. Proceeds will be allocated using a portfolio approach. The Committee will strive to ensure that eligible assets meet or exceed the outstanding volume of green debt and will replace projects that fall out of eligibilit y with new assets immediately. This process is aligned with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to futu re investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 11 Overall comment on section (if applicable): NORD/LB CBB intends to prepare regular reports on both allocation and impact along with an annual NORD/LB Group Sustainability Report, all of which will be made available on the website. Alloca tion reporting will include a full breakdown of allocation by projects, country and currency as well as financing vs refinancing, current volume and financing share, loan term/maturity and unallocated amounts. NORD/LB CBB will report on relevant impact met rics. Sustainalytics notes that NORD/LB CBB will seek third - party verification of its allocation reporting, which is viewed as a best practice approach. Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to ind ividual bond(s) ☒ Other (please specify): A cover pool reporting will be made available quarterly, in line with the requirements of Transparency Circular CSSF 18/706 Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☒ Green Bond financed share of total inv estment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Freque ncy: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify): amount of energy produced from renewable sources (capacity and output),Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 12 Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): corporate w ebsite www.nordlb.lu ☒ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Allocation and impact reporting will be reviewed on an annual basis by a third - party Where appropriate, please specify na me and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) NORD/LB CBB corporate website “Sustainability”: www.nordlb.lu/sustainability SPECIFY OTHER EXTER NAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second Party Opinion : An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as informatio n barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issu er’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independe nt verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the en vironmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceed s, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external gr een standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria.,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 13 iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An i ssuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless ref lect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 14 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 2019. All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights to the information contained herein is vested exclusively in Sustainalytics. No part of this deliverable may be reproduced, dissem inated, comingled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made available to third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form or in any manner, be it electronically, mechanically, through photocopie s or recordings without the express written consent of Sustainalytics. As the information herein is based on information made available by the issuer, the information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics does not warrant that the information p resented in this deliverable is complete, accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibility for errors or omissions and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the substance of the deliverable and/or any liability for damage arising f rom the use of this deliverable and/or the information provided in it. Any reference to third party names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. Nothing contained in this de liverable shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty on the part of Sustainalytics, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in companies, selection of projects or make any kind of business transactions. It shall not be cons trued as an investment advice (as defined in the applicable jurisdiction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor its creditworthiness. The issuer is fully responsible for certifyi ng and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring.,Second - Party Opinion NORD/LB CBB Green Bond Framework 15 Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm that supports investors around the worl d with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with institutional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 countries, t he world’s leading issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for second - party opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds Standard Board as a verifier organization, and supports various stakeholders in the development and verification of their frameworks. In 2015, Global Capital awarded Sustainalytics “Best SRI or Green Bond Research or Ratings Firm” and in 2018 and 2019, named Susta inalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider. The firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Climate Bonds Initiative as well as Environmental Finance in 2018, and in 2019 was named the “Largest Approved Verifier for Cert ified Climate Bonds” by the Climate Bonds Initiative. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special Mention Sustainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan and the Min ister of the Environment Award in the Japan Green Contributor category of the Japan Green Bond Awards in 2019. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com