© Sustainalytics 20 21 Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Novelis Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018. This as sessment is based on the following: The eligible categor ies for the use of proceeds – Renewable Energy and Pollution Prevention and Control – are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples 2018 . Sustainalytics considers th at the eligible categories will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically SDG s 7 and12 . Novelis ’ eligible projects will be evaluated by a Green Bond Committee mad e up of representatives from the heads of various business units as well as the Sustaina b ility and Treasury teams. Sustainalytics considers the project selection process in line with market practice . Net bond proceeds will be mana ged by Novelis ’ Finance department. Pending allocation, the proceeds will be temporarily invest ed in cash or cash equivalents ac cording to the Company ’ s internal liquidity policy. This is in line with market practice . Novelis intends to report on allocation of proceeds on its website via a Green Bond Report which will include amount of allocated and unallocated proceeds, as well as the description of projects. In addition, the Company is committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics . Sustai nalytics views Novelis ’ allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Evaluation D ate March 17 , 2021 Issuer Locatio n Atlanta , USA Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ .................. 8 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainabl e Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Jhankrut Shah (Toronto) Project Manager jhankrut.shah@sustainalytics.com (+1) 647 264 6641 Ijeoma Madueke (Toronto) Project Support Andrew Johnson (Toronto) Project Support Paramjot Kaur (New York) Client Relations sus finance.americas@sustainalytics.com (+1) 646 518 9623,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 2 Introduction Novelis Inc. (“Novelis ” , or the “Company”) is a metal fabrication company that produces flat - rolled aluminum primarily from recycled aluminium . Novelis does not mine bauxite, refi ne alumina, or smelt aluminium. Heaquarterd in Georgia, United States , the Company owns 33 manufactu ring facilities and operat es in nine countries with about 15,000 employees. Novelis is a subsidiary of Hindalco Industries Limited, an aluminum and copper m anufacturing company.based in Mumbai, India. Novelis has developed the Novelis Green Bond Framework (the “Framework”) under which it intends to issue green bonds and use the proceeds to refinance, in whole or in part, existing projects that advance a low - c arbon, sustainable economy through aluminum recycling . The Framework defines eligibility criteria in two areas: 1. Renewable Energy 2. Pollution Prevention and Control Novelis engaged Sustainalytics to review the Novelis Green Bond Framework , dated March 2021 , and provide a S econd - P arty O pinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) . 1 T This Framework will be published in a separate document. 2 Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics ’ Seco nd - Party Opinion Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ indepen dent 3 opinion on the alignment of the reviewed Framework with the current market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories are credible and impact ful. As part of the Second - Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: • T he Framework’s alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2018, as administered by ICMA ; • The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds ; and • The alignm ent of the issuer ’ s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk management in relation to the use of proceeds . For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.7.1 , which is informed by marke t practice and Sustainalytics ’ expertise as an ESG research prov ider. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Novelis ’ management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and pla nned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and repo rting aspects of the Framework. Novelis representatives have confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of Novelis to ensure that the information provided is complete, accurat e or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant information and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public info rmation. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the F ramework and should be read in conjunction with that Framework. Any update of the present Second - Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement conditions between Sustainal ytics and Novelis . Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market standards. Furthermore, Sus tainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impa cts of eligible projects expected to be financed with bond proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The measurement and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framework is the responsibility of the Framework owner. 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ . 2 The Novelis Green Bond Framework is available on Novelis websit e at: novelis.com/sustainability 3 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustai nalytics and ensuring analyst independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable res earch. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separa tion of commercial and research (and engagement) teams, data pro tection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is tra nsparency.,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 3 In addition, the Second - Party Opinion opines on the potential allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee the realised allocation of the bond proceeds towards eligible activities. No informati on provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second - Party Opinion shall be considered as being a statement, representation, warrant or argument , either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of any facts or statements and re lated surrounding circumstanc es that Novelis has made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second - Party Opinion . Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Novelis Green Bond Framework Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Novelis Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns to the four core components of the GBP . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of Novelis ’ G reen B ond F ramework : • Use of Proceeds: - The eligible categor ies – Renewable Ene rgy and Pollution Prevention and Control – are aligned with those recognized by the GBP. - Renewable Energy expenditures under the Framework includes solar and wind energy generation projects with emissions of less than 100g CO 2 e/kWh. In addition to investi ng directly in projects, the Company intends to procure electricity via power purchase agreements (PPAs). Novelis confirms that the PPAs that the is suer intends on financing under th e Framework are physical and long - term PPAs , which Sustainalytics views as providing greater assurance of positive impact and aligned with market practice . - Under the Pollution Prevention and Control category, Novelis inten ds to finance projects that are focused on collection and processing of recycled secondary aluminium which i t can further process into finished products. ▪ Projects could include but are not limited to scrap collection centers, shredding/ processing equipme nt, or metal remelting and casting facilities . ▪ Aluminium is theoretically an infinitely recyclable material , and projects that increas e capacity for recycling and processing of secondary aluminium contribute towards establishing a closed - loop system for ci rcular utilization . ▪ Sustainalytics views positively projects that increase recycling and that contribute to the transition towards a low - carbon economy via increased circularity of aluminium and the reduction of primary metal usage. ▪ Sustainalytics further notes the environmental benefits associated with using recycled metal given that it requires 95% less energ y and produces 95% less greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to repurpose and reutilize compared to primary metal. • Project Evaluation and Selection: - Novelis’ eligible pro jects will be evaluated and selected by a Green Bond Committee (the “Committee”). The Comm ittee is made up of representatives from the heads of various business uni t s as well as the Sustaina b ility and Treasury teams. - Sustainalytics considers that the coll aboration between relevant business units strengthens the implementation of the Framework and is in line with market practice.,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 4 • Management of Proceeds: - The Company’s Finance department will be responsible for allocating the net proceeds to eligible projects. Pending allocation, the Company will temporarily invest an equal amount of the unallo cated balance of proceeds in cash or cash equivalents according to Novelis’ internal liquidity policy. - The Framework defines a three - year lookback perio d for refinancing activities, which Sustainalytics considers to be in line with market practice . - Based o n the defined management approach and disclosure around the management of unallocated proceeds, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. • Reporting: - Novelis commits to publishing a Green Bond Report on its website, which wi ll include amounts allocated to eligible projects, project descriptions and the remaining balance of unallocat ed net proceeds. - The Company intends to report on the estimated environmental impacts of the projects to which it has allocated proceeds. Some of the potental impact metrics include renewable energy capacity sourced and developed (MWh), annual rene w able en ergy procured, emissions avoided or reduced (mtCO 2 e) and reduction of primary aluminum usage (kt). - Sustainalytics considers Novelis’ allocation an d impact reporting process to be in line with market practice. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Susta inalytics has determined that the Novelis Green Bond Framework aligns to the four core components of the GBP . For detailed information please refe r to Appendix 1 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Performance of Novelis Contribution of the F ramework to Novelis ’ sustainability strategy Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Novelis demonstrates a commitme nt to sustainability with a focus on five environmental areas related to its opera tions, including percentage of recycled materials used ; GHG emissions ; waste to landfill ; water usage ; and energy intensity. Generally, investments in the aluminium sector wi th a focus on providing environmental benefits are conisdered relevant from a tran sition finance perspective. However, Sustainalytics notes Novelis’ environmental focus areas are closely related to the Company's main operations as a producer of flat - rolled aluminum products primarily from recycled metal , and its sustainability strategy is linked to its close d - loop recycling system. Novelis is a global recycler of aluminum products, and has implemented its closed - loop recycling systems across several locati ons around the world . Recycling aluminum has financial and environmental benefits because it requires 95 % less energy compared to producing new metal. 4 In this context, Novelis ’ focus on renewable energy investments ha ve the potential to contribute to furt her reduc ing GHG emissions from its manufacturing processes . In its 2020 Purpose R ep ort, Novelis reported a steady decrease in energy intensity measured against its baseline year of 2007. 5 Similarly, Novelis reported steady decreases in GHG emissions compa red to the same baseline year. 6 Su stainalytics Novelis’ F ramework will contribute to furth er progress towards its energy and sustainability strategy. Novelis has grown the percentage of recycled content used in the production of its products compared to 20 07 and further investments in pollution prevention and control through circular economy processes have the potential to further contribute to this trajectory . Novelis’ 2020 Purpose Report highlighted the Company’s partnerships in the aviation and aut o indu st ries, that create opportunities to improve its closed loop recycling system through better sourcing of scrap metal from these sectors . 7 While noting the steady progress made on key performance indicators, Sustainalytics encourages the issuer to highligh t quantifiable and time - bound targets with respect to its sustainability strategy. Overall, 4 The Aluminum Association, “Recycling”, (2021), at: https://www.aluminum.org/industries/production/recycling 5 Novelis, “2020 Purpose Report”, (2020), at: https://www.novelis.com/wp - content/uploads/2020/11/2020 - Purpose - Report - ENG - Page.pdf 6 Novelis, “2020 Purpose Report”, (2020), at: https ://www.novelis.com/wp - content/uploads/2020/11/2020 - Purpose - Report - ENG - Page.pdf 7 Novelis, “2020 Purpose Report”, (2020), at: https://www.novelis.com/wp - con tent/uploads/2020/11/2020 - Purpose - Report - ENG - Page.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 5 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Novel is Green Bond Framework is aligned with the C ompany’s sustainability strategy and initiatives and will further the Co mpany’s action on its key environmental priorities. We ll - positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While Sustainalytics recognizes that the net proceeds from the bond issued under the Framework will be direct ed towards eligible projects that are expected to have po sitive environmental impact, Sustainalytics is aware that such eligible projects could also lead to negative environmental and social outcomes . Some key environmental and social risks associated with the eligible projects, could include health and safety, waste and effluents, carbon emissions from own operations, and supply chain risks. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Novelis is able to manage and/or mitigate potential risks through implementati on of the following: • Environmental, Health, Safety and Q uality Policy (EHS&Q) – Novelis’ EHS&Q Policy focuses on three commitments to health and safe ty including: (I) achieving zero workplace injuries and illnesses, (II) minimizing environmental impacts a nd reduc ing natural resource consumption, and (III) enhan c ing the quality of product lifecycle and provide quality services to customers. 8 Novelis’ plants are certified by international ly recognized standards including ISO 9001 (q uality management) , ISO 14 0001 (environmental management), OHSAS 18001 (occupational heal th and safety), and IATF 16929 (quality management) . 9 • Environmental Metrics Reporting and Management – Novelis reports and manages environmental metrics at its locations globally. 10 Reporting c onsists of energy, material flows, water, t ransportation, waste, air emissions and discharge and recycling. 11 • Code of Conduct – Novelis’ Code of Conduct details guidelines for how the C omp any operates . 12 The Code details employee engagement, stakeholder en g agement processes, how the Company compli es with the laws in the countries it works in and how the Company promot es safe and harassment - free work environments. 13 • Supplier Code of Conduct - Novelis’ Supplier Code of Condu ct details how it engages with its supply chain including on governance, management and transparency issues . 14 The Code outlines requirements of suppliers to compl y with regulations, labor and human rights expectations, abolition of child labor , health and safety, environmental protection an d responsible sourcing. Based on these policies, standards and assessments, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Novelis has implemented adequate measures and is well - positioned to manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated wi th the eligible categorie s. 8 Novelis , “Environment, Health, Safety and Quality Policy”, (2020), at: https://novelis.com/wp - content/uplo ads/2020/12/EHS - Policy - Guidelines_ENG.pdf 9 Novelis , “Certifications”, (2021), at: https://www.novelis.com/certifications/ 10 Novelis, “Novelis Environmental Metrics Reporting and Management Directi ve, (2020), at: https://www.novelis.com/wp - content/uploads/2020/11/Env - Metrics - Reporting - and - Management - Directive_EN.pdf 11 Ibid 12 No velis, “Code of Conduct”, (2020), at: https://www.novelis.com/wp - content/uploads/2020/07/Code - of - Conduct.pdf 13 Ibid 14 Novelis, “Supplier Code of Conduct”, (2020), at: https://www.novelis.com/wp - content/uploads/2020/04/Novelis - Supplier - Code - of - Conduct.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 6 Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds Both use of proceeds categories are aligned with those recognized by the GBP. Sustainalytics has focused the below where the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. Imp ortance of recycling alu minum and the circular economy According to the World Resources Institute, creating a circular economy for the cement, aluminum, steel, plastics and food industries would have the potential to cut CO2 emissions by 3.7 billion tonnes by 205 0. 15 Globally, only 8.6% of the economy is part of the circular economy, a decrease – of 0 .5% from 2018. 16 In the aluminum sector, half the aluminum produced each year does not reach the final product , instead bec oming scrap. 17 Aluminium has the potential to b e one of the main drivers of the global transition towards a low - carbon, circular economy. 18 Aluminium can be infinitely recycled without affecting the metal’s original properties, making it a circular material. 19 Because of that uni que trait, 75% of the 1.5 billion tonnes of aluminium ever produced is still in use today. 20 In addition to its recycling capability, aluminium is lightweight, durable, conductive and formable, which makes it a key material that can help other industries t o achieve their emission r eduction targets. 21 Increasing the share of secondary aluminium in aluminium production has significant implications for energy intensity improvements. I A ccording to the IEA , the combined share of aluminium produced from new and o ld scrap should reach 40% b y 2030. 22 Fu rthermore, to follow the path of the sustainable development scenario, the IEA highlights the need to reduce the emissions intensity of both primary and secondary aluminium production by 1. 5 % annually from now until 2030 . 23 As a result of Noveli s’ efforts to increase recycling input rates , increase energy efficiency rates and use renewable sources of power , Sustainalytic s is of the opinion that Novelis’s projects are expected to have a positive environmental impact. Alignment with/ contribution t o SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. The bond(s) is sued under the Novelis Green Bond Framework advances the following SDG s and target s : Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Pollution Prevention and Control 12. Resp onsible Consumption and Production 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse 15 W orld R esources I nstitute (WRI) , “ How to Build a Circular Econ omy”, (2020), at: https://www.wri.org/blog/2020/08/how - to - circular - economy 16 CGRi, ”The Circularity Gap Report 2020”, (2020), at: https://assets.website - files.com/5e185aa4d27bcf348400ed82/5e26ead616b6d1d157ff4293_20200120%20 - %20CGR%20Globa l%20 - %20Report%20web%20single%20page%20 - %20210x297mm %20 - %20compressed.pdf 17 Ellen MacArthur Foundation, ”Completing The Picture How The Circular Economy Tackles Climate Change”, (2019), at: https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/assets/downloads/Comple ting_The_Picture_How_The_Circular_Economy - _Tackles_Cl imate_Change_V3_26_September.pdf 18 European Aluminium, “Circular Aluminium Action Plan”, at: https://www.european - aluminium.eu/policy - areas/recycling - circular - econom y/ 19 European Aluminium, “Vision 2050”, at: https://www.european - aluminium.eu/media/2545/s ample_vision - 2050 - low - carbon - strategy_20190401.pdf 20 World Aluminium, “Aluminium Recycling”, at: https://www.world - aluminium.org/media/filer_public/2020/1 0/20/wa_factsheet_final.pdf 21 European Aluminium, “Vision 2050”, at: https://www.euro pean - aluminium.eu/media/2545/sample_vision - 2050 - low - carbo n - strategy_20190401.pdf 22 ‘O ld scrap ’ refers to scrap aluminum arising from products after use while ‘New scrap ’ refers to scrap aluminum arising from the various production stages of aluminium produ cts, before the aluminium product is sold to the final u ser . F or more information see: https://www.aluminum.org/sites/default/files/GAG_Terms_and_Definitions_ - Edition_2009 - 01_ - March_2009.pdf 23 IEA, ”Aluminium”, (2021), at: https://www.iea.org/reports/alumi nium,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 7 Conclusion Novelis has developed the Novelis Green Bond Framework under which it may issue green bonds and the u se of proceeds to finance renewable energy as well as secondary aluminum production activities. Sustainalytics considers that the recycling project s funded by the green bond proceeds are expected to have provide positive environmental im pact especially tow ards reducing primary aluminum production. The Novelis Green Bond Framework outlines a process by which proceeds will be tracked, allocated, and man aged, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocation and impact of the use of proceeds. Fur thermore, Sustainalytics believes that the Novelis Green Bond Framework is aligned with the overall sustainability strategy of the company and that t he green use of proceed s categor ies will contribute to the advancement of the UN Sustainable Development Go a ls 7 and 12 . Additionally, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Novelis has adequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible projects funded by the use of proceeds. Based on the above , Sustainalytics is confident that Novelis is well - positioned to issue green bonds and that th e Novelis Green Bond Framework is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018.,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 8 Appendi ces Append ix 1 : Green B ond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Novelis Inc. Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : Novelis Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Compl etion date of this form: March 17 , 2021 Publication date of review publication: Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBP: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Not e: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review.,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 9 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible categories for the use of proceeds – Ren ewable Energy and Pollution Prevention and Control – are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples 2018. Sustainalytics considers that the eligible categories will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sus tainable Devel opment Goals , specifically SDGs 7 and12 . Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☒ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustai nable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBP ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBP: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): Novelis ’ eligible projects will be evaluated by a Green Bond Committee made up of representatives from the heads of va rious business units as well as the Sustaina b ility and Treasury teams. Sustainalytics considers the project selection process in line wi th market practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented proce ss to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated wit h the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 10 Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Select ion criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Net bond proceeds will be managed by Novelis ’ Finance department. Pending allocation, the proceeds will be temporarily invest ed in cash or cash equivalents according to the Company ’ s internal liquidity policy. This is in line with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segrega ted or tracked by the issue r in an appropriate manner ☐ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and f uture investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): Novelis intends to report on allocation of proceeds on its website via a Green Bond Report which will include amount of allocated and unallocated proceeds, as well as the description of projects. In addition, t he Company is committed to reporting on rel evant impact metrics. Sustainalytics views Novelis’ allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Use of proceeds reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 11 Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emission s / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify): R enewable energy capacity sourced and developed (MWh), A nnual rene w able energy procured, R eduction of primary aluminum usage (kt). Frequency ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☒ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☐ Other (please specify): ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, t o issuer’s documen tation, etc.),Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 12 SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second - Party Opinion: A n institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second - Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information b arriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second - Party Opinion. It normally entails an as sessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’ s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification ma y focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the envir onmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestatio n regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can hav e its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredi ted third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issu er can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified thir d parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating met hodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflec t material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 13 Disclaimer Copyright ©202 1 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Da ta), and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalyt ics, or provided that appropriate citation and acknowledgement is ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an en dorsement of any product or project; (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice or a prospectus; (3) cannot be interpreted as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business transactions; (4 ) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. These are based on information made available by the issu er and therefore are not warranted as to their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up - to - datene ss or fitness for a particular purpose. The information and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration a nd publication. Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the informati on, data or opinions contained herein, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list of our third - party data providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, vis it http://www.sustainalytics.com/leg al - disclaimers . The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language ve rsion shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion Novelis Green Bond Framework 14 About Sustainalytics , a Morningstar Company Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm th at supports investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible invest ment strategies. The firm works with hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance informati on and assessments into their investment processes. The world’s foremost issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, also rely on Sustainalytics for credible second - party opinions on green, social and sustainable bond frameworks. In 2020, Climate Bonds Initiative named Sustainalytics the “Largest Approved Verifier f or Certified Climate Bonds” for the third consecutive year. The firm was also recognized by Environmental Finance as the “Largest External Reviewer” in 2020 for the second consecutive year. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com .