F e b r u a r y 2 0 2 1 1 Key findings Context ualization In January 2017, the French Republic issued the first French sovereign green bond (green OAT 1.75% 25 June 2039) (hereafter referred to as the “Green OAT"), dedicated to finance expenditures in line with the commitments that France made for the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement under the terms of the Energy Transition a nd Green Growth Act. Agence France Trésor (AFT), tasked with managing the government ’ s debt and cash positions, had mandated V.E as an independent expert to deliver a Second Party Opinion on the Green OAT 1 . Since then, to maintain the liquidity of th is Green OAT through tap issues after the initial issuance, as for conventional benchmark OATs, AFT has proceeded to ten reissuances, bringing the total outstanding Green OAT debt standing at €27.4billion as of July 2 nd , 2020. During the same period, AFT k ept its commitment to set up the Green OAT Evaluation Council, which met for the first time on December 11 th , 2017. In 202 1 , the AFT plans to publish an allocation and performance report, and the Council continues its work on impact reports. Use of procee ds  We express a reasonable level of assuran ce on the I ssuer's ability to use the 20 2 1 tap issues’ proceeds to finance projects with environmental benefits, in line with its initial commitments in the Green OAT Framework 1 .  We express a reasonable level of assurance on the Issuer’s capacity to use the OAT proceeds to fi nanc e projects contributing to climate change mitigation and adaptation, protection of natural resources and reduction of ecosystems degradation, in line with seven of the 17 United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Evaluation and selection  We consider the overall level of implementation of the issuer’s commitments t o be advanced , in terms of the project evaluation and selection process, the application of eligibility criteria and the allocation allocation of proceeds from the OAT. A S S U R A N C E & P E R F O R M A N C E E V A L U A T I O N L E V E L S U S E O F P R O C E E D S Weak Moderate Reasonable E V A L U A T I O N A N D S E L E C T I O N Weak Limited Robust Advanced 1 https://www.aft.gouv.fr/files/medias - aft/3_Dette/2_Framework_FR_cadre%20OAT%20Verte%20130117.pdf ANNUAL REVIEW Of the S econd P arty O pinion on the sustainability of the French R epublic’s G reen OAT V.E express es a reasonable level of assurance on the green credentials of the Green Expenditures identified by the inter - ministerial working group for 2021,F e b r u a r y 2 0 2 1 2 SCOPE V.E was commissioned to update its opinion (thereafter “Second Party Opinion” or “SPO”) on the sustainability credentials and management of the Green OAT issued by the French Republic (the “Issuer” or “France ”) in January 2017 , in compliance with the Green OAT Framework ( the “Framework”) created to govern their issuance. Our opinion is established according to V.E ’s exclusive social responsibility performance and risk assessment methodology (Environmental, Social and Governance Factors - ESG) of sovereign issuers and to the latest version of th e ICMA’s Green Bond Principles (“GBP”) - edited in June 2018 . Our opinion is built on the review of the following components: • Issuance : verification of the green credentials of the Green Expenditures that would be financed by future tap issues over the year 2021.  Use of proceeds: document - based review of the correspondence of these Green Expenditures 2021 with the six eligible Green Sectors defined in the “ Framework for the Green OAT".  Process for Expenditures ’ e valuation and selection: review of the transparency and implementation of A gence Fr ance Tr é sor ’ s (A FT ) commitments regarding the evaluation and selection of Green Expenditures and the application of the eligibility criteria initially defined by AFT. • Issuer : evaluation of the issuer's sustainability performan ce with regards to its contribution to the sustainable development goals.  Comparative analysis, as of November 2020 (date of the last rating cycle), of the level at which the I ssuer commits to integrate into its legislative and regulatory framework and into its public policies the sustainable development principles and goals as they are broadly defined by international public law conventions, as well as by the guidelines and recommendations formulated by public international organisations. Our sources of information are multichannel, combining data (i) gathered from public sour ces, press content providers and stakeholders, (ii) from V.E ’ s exclusive ESG rating database, and (iii) information provided from the Issuer, through documents . We carried out our due diligence assessment from January 4 th to February 3 rd , 202 1 . We consider that we were provided with access to all the appropriate documents and interviewees we solicited. R easonable efforts have been made to verify data accuracy. Cont act Sustainable Finance Team | VEsustainablefinance@vigeo - eiris.com,F e b r u a r y 2 0 2 1 3 ISSUANCE We express a reasonable level of assurance (V.E’s highest level of assurance) on the green credentials of the Green Expenditures identified by the inte r - ministerial working group for 2021 . Use of proceeds We express a reasonable level of assuran ce on the I ssuer's ability to use the 20 2 1 tap issues’ proceeds to finance projects with environmental benefits, in line with its initial commitments in the Green OAT Framework 2 . As of today, 54 expenditures have been selected by the I ssuer as eligible in 2021, corresponding in its entirety to the six Green Sectors initially defined by the issuer in the « Framework for the green OAT », namely: • Buildings • Transport • Energy • Living resources and biodiversity • Adaptation • Pollution control and Eco - efficiency Contribution to the S ustainable D evelopment G oals We express a reasonable level of assurance on the Issuer’s capacity to use the OAT proceeds to fi nanc e projects contributing to climate change mitigation and adaptation, protection of natural resources and reduction of ecosystems degradation, in line with seven of the 17 United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). We consider that the Green Sectors targeted by the Green OAT are likely to co ntribute to the following UN SDGs: Goal 7. Affordable and clean energy, Goal 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure, Goal 11. Sustainable cities & communities, Goal 12. Sus tainable consumption & production, Goal 13. Climate action, Goal 14. Life below water and Goal 15. Life on land. 2 https://www.aft.gouv.fr/files/medias - aft/3_Dette/2_Framework_FR_cadre%20OAT%20Verte%20130117.pdf,F e b r u a r y 2 0 2 1 4 Evaluation and selection We consider the overall level of implementation of the I ssuer’s commitments t o be advanced , in terms of the project evaluation and selection process, the application of eligibility criteria and the allocation allocation of proceeds from the OAT. The process for projects evaluation and selection obeys to a structured and controlled process, in line with France’s environmental policies. • The selection and validation of Green Expenditures was ensured via an inter - ministerial working group, put in place by the Prime Minister’s cabinet and involving the concerned ministries ( Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition , Ministry of Econom y and Finance , Ministry of Public Accounts Action , Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation , Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Territorial Collectivities , Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Minitry of Europe and foreign aff airs) . • All Eligible Expenditures were publicly documented, and a record of decisions w as established for inter - ministerial working group meetings, enabling the traceability of selection decisions. • Selection and exclusion criteria, notably based on the Gr eenfin label (previously named the “Energy and Ecological Transition for Climate” label), appear to have been appropriately applied during the evaluation and selection of Green Expenditures. To be noted that the E xpenditures selected as eligible for 2021 were presented and approved by the Evaluation Council, composed of international experts. • As a general rule, when draft legislation is transmitted to Parliament, it is accompanied by an impact study covering their economic, financial and social implic ations. In addition, and more specifically, the environmental benefits of the Green OAT ’s Expenditures are the subject of specific studies supervised by the Green OAT Evaluation C ouncil , including an analysis of mitigation me asures for the associated risks. After publishing reports on the Energy Transition Tax Credit (CITE), on Voies navigables de France and on the National Forestry Office, the Council intends to ad dress the various Eligible Expen ditures one after the other.,F e b r u a r y 2 0 2 1 5 ISSUER Level of the Issuer’s sustainability performance According to the Sovereign Sustainability Rating © last updated by V.E ( Vigeo Eiris ) in November 20 20 , France received a rating of 82 /100 which indicates an overall a dvanced sustainability performance . France ranks 4 th out of 178 countries rated in our global sovereign sustainability index , and also 4 th out of 37 OECD countries 3 rated by V . E 4 . V.E ’s assessment of the Issuer’s sustainability performance is based on publicly available information and statistics derived from sources that have been agreed for use in the data collection and rating methodologies for the Sovereign Sustainability Rating . France has a n advanced p erformance across all three pillars: Environmental Responsibility ( 7 5 / 100 ) , Social Responsibility ( 81 /100 ) , and Governance Responsibility ( 8 9 /100 ) . D O M A I N E C O M M E N T A I R E S O P I N I O N Environ ment France has an advanced performance in the Environmental Responsibility pillar , however its score of 7 5 /100 is the lowest across the three pillars of sustainability . The country ranks in the top quartile in V.E’s rated sovereign universe ( 10 th out of 178). France has ratified all the international environmental conventions included in our rating framework, including the Paris Agreement, the Convention on Biological Diversity, the United Nations Framework Convention to Combat Desertification , the Stockholm Co nvention on persistent organic pollutants and the Aarhus C onvention on access t o environmental justice . As a member of the European Union (EU), France steered and jointly endorsed the collective pledge to reduce GHG emissions by 40% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels. 5 France has the fifth lowest carbon intensity per unit of economic output (0.11 kg per PPP USD of GDP 6 ) in the OECD group. H owever , the country needs to strengthen its ef f orts to reduc e consumption - based and transport emission s . France performs well in addressing air pollution . The country ’s urban pollution levels fare below the OECD average – e.g. the annual mean levels of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) in cities ( population weighted) was 1 1 . 7 m icrogram/m 3 in 2016. 7 H owever , e nergy efficiency and transition to renewable energy are areas that need improvement. The country has t he seventeenth highest energy intensity (3,692 kg of oil eq ./ capita 8 ) and the eight lowest production of e lectricity from renewable sources excluding hydropower ( 6.2 % 9 ) in the OECD group . A reas related to biodiversity protection , green growth an d the transition to a circular economy also need improvement. Regarding biodiversity, France has a mixed performance on ecosystem management. The country has developed a reasonable coverage of protected areas aimed to safeguard its rich t errestrial and marine biodiversity. A dvanced Robust Limit ed 3 There are 37 countries that are members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD): Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzer land, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States . Source https://www.oecd.org/about/members - and - partners/ . All these countries are covered by V .E in the Sovereign Sustainability Rating. 4 Note: The Issuer has not been subject to a review of its ability to mitigate sustainability risks based on the review of stakeholder opinion. 5 EU’s First I NDC , 2015 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/ndcstaging/PublishedDocuments/Italy%20First/LV - 03 - 06 - EU%20INDC.pdf . 6 https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EN.ATM.CO2E.PP.GD 7 http://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/database/?indicator=11.6.2 8 https://data.worldbank.org/i ndicator/EG.USE.PCAP.KG.OE 9 https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EG.ELC.RNWX.ZS A dvanced,F e b r u a r y 2 0 2 1 6 Compared to its OECD peers, France has an overall high proportion of sites that are important for terrestrial biodiversity which are covered by protected areas (80% in 2019 10 ) . However, the country’s Red List Index has recorded a deteriorating trend over time (0.8 7 in 2020 from 0.9 3 in 2000), which indicates that the rate of biodiversity loss is increasing. Similarly, r oom for improvement lies in the transition towards green growth, notably in terms of the nuclear w aste production per G DP , fertilizer consumption and the allocation of public funds for environmentally related R&D . Weak Social France has an advanced performance in the Social Responsibility pillar with a score of 81 /100 . The country ranks in the top quartile in V.E’s rated sovereign universe ( 6 th out of 178) . Like most OECD peers, France has high enrolment rates for both primary and secondary education . T he government spending on education, which amounted to 5 . 5 % of GDP (20 17 ) , is the ninth highest in the OECD group . 11 I ncome equality is moderate , with a Gini coefficient of 0.3 (2017) , which is the fifteenth lowest within the OECD economies . U nemployment is high, in particular y outh unemployment, which amounted to 19.5 % in 2020, the sixth highest in the OECD group. 12 P overty levels ha ve been stable over the last ten years to reach a rate of 0.08 in 2017, the seventh lowest in the OECD group. T he working population enjoy fundamental rights such as freedom of association and collective bargaining . However, a ccording to International Trade Union Confederation ( ITUC ) , France has fac ed repeated violations of workers’ rights in 20 19 . 13 Compared to OECD peers, France fares well in areas such as accessibility of healthcare and gender equality. With 11 . 5 nurses & midwifes and 3 . 3 physicians per 1,000 people, 14 the density of medical staff in France is well above the WHO estimates of 2.5 medical staff per 1,000 people needed to provide adequate coverage with primary care interventions . 15 France has good rate s of women in political life and in the labour force. 16 Increasing women’s access to education and the labour market is identified as a determinant for change by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in tackling world poverty. France has an overall moderate performance in t he promotion of healthy lives and access to a balanced nutrition for the areas where there is reported data available to assess performance . Moderate scores are recorded in areas linked to the r eduction of infectious diseases and the harmful use of alcohol. T here is inadequate data available for France to determine the country’s efforts to prevent child malnutrition & stunting . A dvanced Robust Limit ed Weak 10 https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/database/ 11 https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SE.XPD.TOTL.GD.ZS 12 https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SL.UEM.1524.ZS 13 ITUC Global Rights Index 2020 https://www.ituc - csi.org/ituc - global - rights - index - 2020 14 Nurses & midwifes per 1,000 people https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SH.MED.NUMW.P3 ; Physicians per 1,000 people https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SH.MED.PHYS.ZS 15 As per the definition of medical staff shortage in the 2006 World Health Report https://www.who.int/whr/2006/whr06_en.pdf?ua=1 16 Labor force participation rate, female https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SL.TLF.CACT.FE.ZS ; P roportion of seats held by women in national parliaments (%) https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SG.GEN.PARL.ZS,F e b r u a r y 2 0 2 1 7 Go vernance France ’s performance in the Governance Responsibility pillar is assessed as advanced with a score of 8 9 /100 . The country ranks in the top quartile in V . E’s rated sovereign universe ( 11 th out of 178). France has ratified fundamental conventions relating to human rights , children’s rights, and labour rights such as forced labour, freedom of association and collective bargaining . H owever , France has not endorsed international conventions related to occupational health and safety or the rights of migrant workers . The country abolished the death penalty for all crimes. 17 France scores high in all the areas related to the promotion of rule of law, public governance , control of corruption and democratic accountability that are measured by the Worldwide Governance Indicators. However, the country’s performance has recorded deteriorating tr ends over the la st ten years in areas that measure the ability of elected politicians to ensure political stability and the participation of citizens in matters of public governance and accountability. 18 France ranked as the 66 th most peaceful countr y in 2019 in the Global Peace Index (GPI ) – throughout the year, the country was embroiled in near constant civil unrest and demonstrations by the Yellow Vests movement over rising fuel taxes and the government’s tax reforms . 19 According to Coface, France’s political and economic governance environment pose d a moderate risk for domestic companies of defaulting on their financial commitments in 2019 , however this risk is likely to be amplified by the negative economic repercussion s of the Covid - 19 pandemic . 20 France ’s adjusted net savings , including damage from particulate emission pollution (% of GNI) have steadily decreased over the last ten years , indicating a consistent run down in the country’s overall resources an d wealth. 21 A dvanced Robust Limit ed Weak 17 https://www.amnesty.org/en/countries/europe - and - central - asia/france/ 18 Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI) https://info.worldbank.org/governance/wgi/ . Vigeo Eiris (VE) calculates performance trends where underlying historical data is available at the source. 19 The Global Peace Index (GPI) scores 169 countries on a scale of 1 - 5, w here 1 is most peaceful and 5 is least peaceful. Source: https://www.visionofhumanity.org/wp - content/uploads/2020/10/GPI_2020_web.pdf 20 V . E (Vigeo Eiris ) uses country risk analysis published by Coface to assess the country’s business resilience to market risks. Source: http://www.coface.com/Economic - Studies - and - Country - Risks 21 Adjusted Net Saving (ANS) was developed as an indicator to approximate the change in wealth — based on simple economic theory in which savings equals investment, and investment equals the change in wealth. ANS measures gross national savings, adjusted for g ains (spending on education) and losses (consumption of fixed capital, depletion of subsoil assets and forests, pollution damages). Source: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.ADJ.S VNG.GN.ZS,8 METHODOLOG Y In V.E’ view, Environmental, Social and Governance/Institution (ESG/I) factors are intertwined and complementary. As such they cannot be separated in the assessment of ESG management in any organisation or activity, including the issuance of bonds. In this se nse, V.E writes an opinion on the Issuer’s sustainability performance as an organisation, and on the Issuance’s objectives, management and reporting of the expenditures (re)financed by this transaction. Our independent opinions (SPOs) are subject to quality checks (consultants in charge of the mission, production manager, and validated by a senior supervisor). The rights of claim and appeal are guaranteed to companies at three levels: first with the team (rel ationship manager or production team), next with Director of methods, Innovation and Quality and then with V.E’s scienti fic council. All V.E’s employees are signatories of V.E’s Code of Conduct and all consultants have also signed its addendum regarding the financial rules of confidentiality. ISSUANCE In the initial opinion, our analysis included: Use of proceeds: The use of proceeds requirements is defined to ensure that the funds raised are used to finance and/or refinance an Eligible Projects and are traceable within the issuing organisation. Each project endorsed shall comply with at least one of the Eligible Project Category definition in order to be considered as an Eligible Green Project. V.E evaluates the relevance, visibility, and measurability of the associated environmental and/ or social objectives. The sustainability purpose of the Green OAT’s associated Eligible Green Expenditures has been precisely defined, with regard to the Issuer’s commitments, and assessed based on the described and est imated benefits of Eligible Projects. The contribution of Eligible Projects to Sustainable Development is evaluated based on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Process for expenditure evaluation and selection : The process for expenditure evaluation and selection has been reviewed by V.E regarding its transparency, responsible management and efficiency. The relevance and c ompleteness of the selection criteria in addition to the process ‘coherence have been analysed with regard to the projects ‘challenges and V.E’ methodology. We have updated our initial opinion on the Green Expenditures identified by the inter - ministerial working group and th at would be financed by potential future tap issues over the year 2021. The update concerns the transparency and implementation of AFT's commitments regarding the correspondence of these Green Expenditure 2021 with the six Green Sectors and the evaluation and selection process for Green Expenditure, as well as the application of the eligibility criteria initially defined by AFT in the "Framework for the Green OAT" dated 10 January 10, 2017. LEVEL OF THE ISSUER'S S USTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE V.E has revised its sovereign rating research, resulting from a continuous improvement process and based on permanent monitor ing of international normative developments as well as stakeholder expectations and debates. This enhanced version includes 69 ne w factors to meet market needs. The 172 indicators are put into perspective with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and are organized into 56 criteria, 17 sub - domains and 3 rating domains. Of note, the new methodology leads to a decrease in the absolute sc ores of the majority of countries. Our methodology, the Sustainability Sovereign Rating©, measures and compares the levels of integration of international publi c law and soft law frameworks, including for the recent period the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the action programmes of Agenda 21, adopted by 173 countries at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992. We pay particular attention to the commitments, policies and impacts of public policies in terms of respect of fundamental human rights, access to ec onomic, social, cultural and environmental rights, quality of governance, as well as international solidarity and cooperation. Based on the analysis of a universe compo sed of 178 countries, the results provide a comparative view of risks and performances, with regard to universally acknowledged sustainability objectives.,9 The sustainability performance of the French Republic was evaluated by V.E in November 2020 based on three rating domains, all equally weighted in the model: Environment (i.e. envi ronmental protection), Social (i.e. social protection and solidarity) and Institutions (i.e. rule of law and governance). These three domains are analysed through 56 criteria, which bring together 17 2 indicators of two types: - Commitment indicators: reflect ing the state’s level of commitment to the goals and principles set by major international agreements: Conventions, recommendations and statements of the ILO; UN Charters and treaties; guiding principles of the OECD; regional instruments (assuming their fu ll compliance with the United Nations Charter); the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its related protocols and treaties. - Result indicators: measuring the efficiency of the country’s sustainable development actions. V.E gathers information from diversified sources including international organisations such as intergovernmental organisations, international trade unions and NGOs. The review of stakeholders’ feedbacks is not included in our evaluation of Soverei gn Bond Issuers. V.E ’S ASSESMENT SCALES Performance evaluation Level of assurance Advanced Advanced commitment; strong evidence of command over the issues dedicated to achieving the objective of social responsibility. Reasonable level of risk management and use of innovative methods to anticipate emerging risks Reasonable Able to convincingly conform to the prescribed principles and objectives of the evaluation framework Robust Convincing commitment; significant and consistent evidence of command over the issues. Reasonable level of risk management Moderate Compatibility or partial convergence with the prescribed principles and objectives of the evaluation framework Limited Commitment to the objective of social responsibility has been initiated or partially achieved; fragmentary evidence of command over the issues. Limited to weak level of risk management Weak Lack or unawareness of, or incompatibility with the prescribed principles and objectives of the evaluation framework Weak Commitment to social responsibility is non - tangible; no evidence of command over the issues. Level of insurance of risk management is weak to very weak,10 DISCLAIMER Transparency on the relation between V.E and the Issuer: V.E has carried out 4 audit missions for France until now. No established relation (financial or commercial) exists between V.E and the Issuer. V.E conflict of interest policy is covered by its Code of Conduct, which can be found at http://vigeo - eiris.com/wp - content/uploads/2018/07/Code - of - Conduct - Vigeo - Eiris - EN.pdf. This opinion aims at providing an independent opinion on the sustainability credentials and management of the French OAT, bas ed on the information which has been made available to V.E. V.E has neither interviewed stakeholders out of the Issuer’s employees, nor performed an on - site audit nor other test to check the accuracy of the information provided by the Issuer. The accuracy, comprehensiveness and trustworthiness of the information collected are a responsibility of the Issuer. The Issuer is fully respons ible for attesting the compliance with its commitments defined in its policies, for their implementation and their monitoring. The opinion delivered by V.E neither focuses on the financial performance of the OAT, nor on the effective allocation of its proc eeds. V.E is not liable for the induced consequences when third parties use this opinion either to make investments decisions or to mak e any kind of business transaction. Restriction on distribution and use of this opinion: The deliverables remain the pro perty of V.E . The draft version of the Second Party Opinion by V.E is for information purpose only and shall not be disclosed by the client. V.E grants the Issuer all rights to use the final version of the Second Party Opinion delivered for external use vi a any media that the Issuer shall determine in a worldwide perimeter. The Issuer has the right to communicate to the outside only the Second Party Opinion complete and without any modification, that is to say without making selection, withdrawal or a dditio n, without altering it in any way, either in substance or in the form and shall only be used in the frame of the contemplated concerned issuance. The I ssuer acknowledges and agrees that V.E reserves the right to publish the final version of the Second Part y Opinion on V.E ’s website and on V.E 's internal and external communication supporting documents. © 2020 Vigeo SAS and/or its licensors and subsidiaries (collectively, “V.E”). All rights reserved. V.E provides its customers with data, information, resear ch, analyses, reports, quantitative model - based scores, assessments and/or other opinions (collectively, “Research”) with respect to the environmental, social and/or governance (“ESG”) attributes and/or performance of individual issuers or with respect to sectors, activities, regions, stakeholders, states or specific themes. V.E’S RESEARCH DOES NOT ADDRESS NON - ESG FACTORS AND/OR RISKS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: CREDIT RISK, LIQUIDITY RISK, MARKET VALUE RISK, OR PRICE VOLATILITY. V.E’S RESEARCH DOES NO T CONSTITUTE STATEMENTS OF CURRENT OR HISTORICAL FACT. V.E’S RESEARCH: (i) DOES NOT CONSTITUTE OR PROVIDE CREDIT RATINGS OR INVESTMENT OR FINANCIAL ADVICE; (ii) IS NOT AND DOES NOT PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS TO PURCHASE, SELL, OR HOLD PARTICULAR SECURITIES; A ND (iii) DOES NOT COMMENT ON THE SUITABILITY OF AN INVESTMENT FOR ANY PARTICULAR INVESTOR. V.E ISSUES ITS RESEARCH WITH THE EXPECTATION AND UNDERSTANDING THAT EACH INVESTOR WILL, WITH DUE CARE, MAKE ITS OWN STUDY AND EVALUATION OF EACH SECURITY THAT IS UND ER CONSIDERATION FOR PURCHASE, HOLDING, OR SALE. V.E’S RESEARCH IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY RETAIL INVESTORS AND IT WOULD BE RECKLESS AND INAPPROPRIATE FOR RETAIL INVESTORS TO USE V.E’S RESEARCH WHEN MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. IF IN DOUBT YOU SHOULD C ONTACT YOUR FINANCIAL OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISER. V.E’S RESEARCH IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY ANY PERSON AS A BENCHMARK AS THAT TERM IS DEFINED FOR REGULATORY PURPOSES AND MUST NOT BE USED IN ANY WAY THAT COULD RESULT IN THEM BEING CONSIDERED A BENCHMARK. ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS PROTECTED BY LAW, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, COPYRIGHT LAW, AND NONE OF SUCH INFORMATION MAY BE COPIED OR OTHERWISE REPRODUCED, REPACKAGED, FURTHER TRANSMITTED, TRANSFERRED, DISSEMINATED, REDISTRIBUTED OR RESOLD, O R STORED FOR SUBSEQUENT USE FOR ANY SUCH PURPOSE, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, IN ANY FORM OR MANNER OR BY ANY MEANS WHATSOEVER, BY ANY PERSON WITHOUT V.E’S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT. ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS OBTAINED BY V.E FROM SOURCES BELIEVED BY IT TO BE ACCURATE AND RELIABLE. BECAUSE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF HUMAN OR MECHANICAL ERROR AS WELL AS OTHER FACTORS, HOWEVER, ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS PROVIDED “AS IS” WITHOUT WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING AS TO THE ACCURACY, TIMEL INESS, COMPLETENESS, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. V.E IS NOT AN AUDITOR AND CANNOT IN EVERY INSTANCE INDEPENDENTLY VERIFY OR VALIDATE INFORMATION IT RECEIVES. To the extent permitted by law, V.E and its directors, officers, empl oyees, agents, representatives, licensors and suppliers (together, “ V.E Parties” ) disclaim liability to any person or entity for any (a) indirect, special, consequential, or incidental losses or damages, and (b) dire ct or compensatory losses or damages caused to any person or entity, including but not limited to by any negligence (but excluding fraud, willful misconduct or any other type of liability that, for the avoidance of doubt, by law cannot be excluded); on the part of, or any contingency within or beyond the control of any V.E Party, arising from or in connection with the infor mation contained herein or the use of or inability to use any such information . Additional terms For PRC only : Any Second Party Opinion or other opinion issued by V.E : (1) does not constitute a PRC Green Bond Assessment as defined under any relevant PRC laws or regulations; (2) cannot be included in any registration statement, offering circular, prospectus or any other documents submitted to the PRC regulatory authorities or otherwise used to satisfy any PRC regulatory disclosure requirement; and (3) cann ot be used within the PRC for any regulatory purpose or for any other purpose which is not permitted under relevant PRC laws or regulati ons. For the purposes of this disclaimer, “ PRC ” refers to the mainland of the People ’ s Republic of China, excluding Hon g Kong, Macau and Taiwan.