© Sustainalytics 201 9 Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Scotiabank Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018. This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor ies for the use of proceeds are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples. Sustainalytics considers that projects in the areas of renewable energy, energy e fficiency, pollution prevention and control, environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use, terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation, clean transportation, sustainable water and wastewater management, and green bu ildings will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , in particular Goals 6, 7, 11, 12, 14, and 15 . Scotiabank’s Asset & Liability Committee, which includes senior executives, is charged with reviewing and approving eligible assets, as well as ongoing oversight and the coordination of reporting. This is in line with market practice. Scotiabank’s Treasury team is responsible for the management of proceeds, and will earmark an amount equivalent to the net proceeds for allocation to eligible green assets originated or refinanced no more than 36 months prior to issuance . Allocations will b e tracked on a quarterly basis, and Scotiabank will, on a best efforts basis, substitute other assets should a given loan no longer be considered eligible. This is in line with market practice Scotiabank has committed to annual allocation and, where feasible, impact reporting. Allocation reporting will be provided at the category level, and will also disclose the balance of unallocated proceeds. Impact reporting will include relevant quantitative performance indicators. This is in line with market pra ctice. Evaluation date June 1 8 , 2019 Issuer Locatio n Toronto, Canada Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Append ices ................................ ................ 10 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Zach Margolis ( Toronto ) Project Manager zach.margolis @sustainalytics.com (+1 ) 647 695 4341 Jean - Claude Berthelot (Amsterdam) Client Relations susfinance.emea@sustainalytics.com +44 20 3880 0193,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 2 Introduction The Bank of Nova Scotia (“Scotiabank” or the “Bank”) is a Canadian financial institution, offering personal and commercial banking, wealth management and private banking, corporate and investment banking, and capital markets services to over 25 million customers. Founded in 1832, as of Decembe r 2018, Scotiabank is the third - largest bank in Canada by both assets and market capitalization. Scotiabank has developed the Scotiabank Green Bond Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it intends to issue green bond ( s ) and use the proceeds to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, existi ng and future loans to eligible projects and/or businesses which support action on climate change . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in eight areas: 1. Renewable Energy 2. Energy Efficiency 3. Pollution Pre vention and Control 4. Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use 5. Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation 6. Clean Transportation 7. Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management 8. Green Buildings Scotiabank engaged Sustainalytics to review the Scotiabank Green Bond Framework dated June 2019, and provide a second - party opinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) . 1 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 2 As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Scotiabank ’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as manageme nt of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Bank ’s green bond. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Scotiabank Green Bond Framework and should be read in conjunction with th at F ramework. 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://w ww.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ 2 The Scotiabank Green Bond Framework is available on Scotiabank ’s website at https://www.scotiabank.com/ca/en/about/investors - shareholders/fixed - income - investors.html,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 3 S ustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Scotiabank Green Bond Framework Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Scotiabank Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . Sustainalytics highlights the f ollowing elements of Scotiabank ’s F ramework :  Use of Proceeds: - The eight use of p roceeds categories are recognized as impactful by the GBP. - Scotiabank has specified as eligible wind (on - and off - shore) and solar power (concentrated and photovoltaic); these projects are generally considered to have positive environmental impacts. The Framework also allows for the inclusion of:  hydropower, with the additional criteria that it must be either <25MW in capacity or run of river. Sustainalytics considers thes e additional criteria to appropriately mitigate risk.  b iomass from waste sources. Sustainalytics views positively that Scotiabank has defined that all biomass will be from waste sources , however notes that no emissions thresholds have been established and that providing such thresholds would increase transparency . 3  geothermal. Sustainalytics views positively the inclusion of geothermal projects, which generally have overall positive environmental benefits, however notes that no emissions thresholds have bee n est ablished and that providing such thresholds would increase transparency . 4 - Regarding clean transportation projects, Scotiabank has established emissions thresholds on a gCO 2 /p - km or gCO 2 /t - km basis, which apply to both private transport and public transit. 5 Sustainalytics considers the use of the qualifications, including the levels chosen, to be aligned with market practice. - The Framework defines eligible green buildings as those that have achieved certification from LEED (minimum Gold), B OMA (minimum Gold), BREEAM (minimum Excellent), or EnergySTAR (minimum 75), or equivalent standards on other internationally recognized schemes. Sustainalytics views these certifications as credible, and the levels selected as impactful. See Appendix 1 for further description of the referenced schemes. - Sustainalytics notes positively that the Framework defines quantitative thresholds, namely 20%, for energy efficiency improvements, as well as specifying technologies which are considered to provide environme ntal benefits such as energy storage and LED lighting. - Sustainalytics views positively that Scotiabank intends to use recognized sustainability certifications to determine the eligibility of assets in the areas of e nvironmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use and t errestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation , including:  L oans to fishery - related assets certified by the M arine S tewardship Council , A quaculture Stewardship C ouncil , or the Friend of the Sea shall be conside red eligible . Sustainalytics considers these certifications to be indicative of net - positive overall impact s ; 6 refer to Appendix 2 for further overview of these schemes. 3 Based on the work of the Climate Bonds Initiative, Sustainalytics considers biomass projects with lifecycle emissions of >100 g CO 2 /kWh to be aligned with a two - degree global warming scenario, and representative of best practice in the green bonds market. 4 Based on the work of the Climate Bonds Initiative, Sustainalytics considers geothermal energy projects with direct emissions of >100 g CO 2 /kWh to be aligned with a two - degree global warming scenario, and representative of best practice in the green bond s market 5 The Framework references the Climate Bonds Initiatives thresholds for transportation, which align with a 2 - degree - compliant emissions trajectory. For 2020, these thresholds are 75gCO 2 /passenger - km and 25gCO2/tonne - km. 6 The Framework does not exclude ASC certifications granted with a variance from the standard. Sustainalytics encourages the ba nk to prioritize bond allocations to companies with full and complete ASC certifications so as to ensure full alignment with the s tandard. A list of variance requests and variances previously granted is available on ASC’s website: http://variance - requests.asc - aqua.org/,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 4  Loans to forestry assets certified by the Forestry Stewardship Council or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification shall be considered eligible. Sustainalytics considers these certifications to be indicative of net - positive overall impacts; refer to Appendix 3 for further overview of these schemes.  Loans to environm entally sustainable agriculture, and a ssociated activities, certified organic by USDA Organic, EU Organic, or Canada Organic, as well as those with certifications from the Rainforest Alliance or Fairtrade. Sustainalytics considers these certifications to b e indicative of positive impacts in relation to the agricultural sector; 7 refer to Appendix 4 for further overview of these schemes. - In the area of water infrastructure, the Framework allows for the inclusion of projects that improve water use efficiency and those related to flood prevention and stormwater management. Sustainalytics recognizes the potential environmental benefits of the se assets , and in particularly notes positively that flood and stormwater projects will require appropriate risk assessments and that distribution systems are specified to be those that improve water efficiency or quality . - Sustaina lytics recognizes that t he GBP prefer project - based lending and financing, and that there is, in general, less transparency with non - project - based lending. While t he Framework allows for general purpose lending to pure - plays, Sustainalytics views favourably the high threshold (90 % o f revenue) that Scotiabank has established in order to deem a company eligible for inclusion .  Project Evaluation and Selection: - Scotia bank has charged its Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO) with the overall oversight of its green bond programme . The ALCO consists of the CFO, CRO, Treasurer, and business line heads, and will consult with the Environmental & Social Risk and Opportunities and Sustainable Business teams as needed to verify the eligibility of assets . - The ALCO , with support from both the Environmental & Social Risk and Opportunities and Sustainable Business team s , will also be responsible for post - issuance review and ongoing monitoring of market practices which may affect the Framework, while the Treasury team will be responsible for o ngoing monitoring of green assets. - Based on the clear delegation of authority, which includes senior executives, Sustainalytics considers this to be in line with market practice.  Management of Proceeds: - The net proceeds of the Green Bond will be deposited in Scotiabank’s general account, and earmarked for allocation to the eligible assets. Scotiabank’s Treasury team will be responsible for monitoring green bond allocations and adjusting on a quarterly basis to ensure that the amount allocated matches the b alance of proceeds. - Assets originated or refinanced up to 36 months prior to issuance of the green bond shall be considered eligible for inclusion in the portfolio, and Scotiabank will, on a best efforts basis, substitute other eligible assets should a gre en asset no longer be considered eligible. Pending allocation, proceeds will be held in line with the Bank’s liquidity management activities. - Based on the commitment to ongoing monitoring by the Treasury team, and the formalization of a look - back period, S ustainalytics considers this to be in line with market practice.  Reporting: - Scotiabank has committed to reporting on an annual basis, until full allocation of the bond.  Allocation reporting will include the net proceeds from each green bond, the amount al located to each eligible category, the balance of unallocated proceeds, and the share of financing vs. refinancing.  Impact reporting will be provided where feasible, and will include relevant quantitative metrics and methodological disclosure. The Framewor k includes a list of potential indicators. - Based on the commitment to annual reporting, and the intention to disclose quantitative performance indicators where feasible, Sustainalytics considers this to be in line with market practice. 7 Sustainalytics notes that the requirements for these schemes vary, and that no one scheme is an overall guarantor of strong environmental and social performance across all dimensions of impact that agriculture and related industries may pose. Nevertheless, Sustainalytics co nsiders these certifications to be robust and credible, and supporting positive impacts.,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 5 Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determined that Scotiabank ’s G reen B ond Framework aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 3 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer Contribution of framework to Scotiabank ’s sustainability strategy Scotiabank, strives to take environmental and social issues into consideration when making business decisions. 8 T hrough its Sustainable Business Strategy, Scotiabank commits to addressing the ESG topics that are most relevant for their business model and stakeholders. 9 Within its Environmental Policy , 10 and Code of Conduct, 11 the bank also commits to environmental pr otection, monitoring and addressing the direct and indirect impacts of its operations on the environment. These commitments are put in practice in the Bank’s lending and financing products; Scotiabank notes that it makes investments into sustainable solu tions and lending in a manner which mitigates social and environmental risk s. 12 In terms of sustainable business, Scotiabank has a focus on a number of environmentally - friendly products and services, such as being the first bank in Canada to introduce a sui te of sustainable investing tools for retail investors in its Scotia iTRADE platform 13 and the CreditAuto program, which provides clients an incentivized credit plan in order to procure a hybrid or electric vehicle and whose bookings increased by 162% compa red to the previous year. 14 In its most recent Sustainable Business Report, Scotiabank disclosed that it provided financing for the renewable energy sector worth CAD 8.5 billion in 2018, an almost two - fold increase since 2017 , focused in Canada and Latin Am erica. 15 To complement these activities , Scotiabank participates in international initiatives related to environmental and social sustainability; the Bank is a signatory to the Equator Principles and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI ) and participates in the UNEP Finance Initiative, which provide s sustainable business pri nciples for responsible lending. Scotiabank is also a member of the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) and the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition and Task Force on Climate - Re lated Financial Disclosures, which are involved in promoting low - carbon policies for enterprises. 16 Scotiabank’s ESG performance has been recognized by several sustainability indices, and the Bank is in the top 20% of global financial institutions in ESG pr actices on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. 17 Given its policy commitments, lending activities, and participation in sustainability - focused initiatives , Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Scotiabank is well positioned to issue green bonds and that its green bonds will further Scotiabank’s sustainability strategy. 8 Scotiabank, “2018 Sustainable Business Report”, (2018), at: https://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/canada /en/documents/about/2018_Sustainable_Business_Report_Final_ENG.pdf . 9 Scotiabank, “Our Strategy”, at: https://www.scotiabank.com/corporate/en/home/corporat e - responsibility/strategy.html . 10 Scotiabank, “2018 Sust ainable Business Report, p38”, at: https://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/canada/en/documents/about/2018_Sustainable_Business_Report_Final_ENG.pdf. 11 Scotiabank, “Code of Conduct”, (2018), at: https://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/canada/en/documents/about/Code_of_Conduct_EN.pdf . 12 Scotiabank, “ Climate Change ”, (20 18), at: https://www.scotiabank.com/corporate/en/home/corporate - responsibility/priorities/climate - change.html 13 Scotiabank “Sustainable Investing – Scotia iTrade”, https://www.scotiabank.com/itrade/en/0,,11414,00.html . S ustainalytics notes that it provides the ESG research and ratings that underpin the iTRADE tools. 14 Scotiabank, “2018 Sustainable Business Report”, (2018), at: https://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/canada/en/documents/about/2018_Sustainable_Business_Report_Final_ENG.pdf . 15 Scotiabank, “2018 Sustainable Business Report”, (2018), at: https://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/canada/en/documents/about/2018_Sustainable_Business_Report_Final_ENG.pdf . 16 Scotiabank, “Our Strategy”, at: https://www.scotiabank.com/corporate/en/home/corporate - responsibility/strategy.html . 17 ibid,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 6 Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While the proceeds from Scotiabank’s green bonds will be directed towards eligible project s that will deliver overall positive environmental outcomes , Sustainalytics recognizes that all large investments, in particular those related to infrastructure and construction, may be associated with the risk of negative environmental and social impacts. A s a financial institution, Scotiabank has limited involvement in development of specific projects which are financed; s ome key risks related to the projects that will be financed by loans from Scotiabank include biodiversity loss from infrastructure projects, air, soil and water emissions , workers’ health and safety during construction and/or operation, and increased exposure of local communities to adverse effects. Sustainalytics considers that the following mechanisms , circumstances, and procedures which Scotiabank has put in place will help mitigate risks:  Scotiabank has a global Human Rights Statement across all of its operations. The Statement is signed by their President and CEO. Sustainalytics views this policy as particularly relevant for the mitigation of risks related to labour rights and workplace health and safety. 18  Scotiabank has internal processes and responsibilities in place, such as an Environmental and Social Risk management team which analyses the potential impact of its financed projects on people and the environment while the banking and credit teams are also required to assess transactions for potential environmental and social risks.  Scotiabank has enacted policies to mitigate social and employee risk, including a Code of Conduct 19 and Supplier’s Code of Conduct, 20 which commits the Bank to ensuring occupational health and safety and maintaining a health y and safe workplace  Scotiabank is as a signatory to the Equator Principles, 21 and in its most recent reporting ye ar assessed ten project finance transactions under the Principles.  In terms of environmental protection, Scotiabank’s Environmental Policy 22 establishes guidelines in managing its impact on the environment, providing actions that mitigate, prevent and addr ess the negative outcomes.  Scotiabank also engages with the communities in which it operates, working on initiatives aimed at reducing the environmental impacts of its business and promoting responsible actions. 23 Given the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Scotiabank is well prepared to manage potential environmental and social risks associated with the use of proceeds. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds All eight use of proceeds categories are recognized as impactful by the GBP. Sustainalytics has focused below on where the impact is specifically relevant based on the markets in which the Bank operates and its potential priority areas for allocation. The role of financial institutions in financing a climate transition The financi al sector is both particularly susceptible to climate change risk, and uniquely positioned to take actions which will have a positive impact. 24 According to a report from the World Energy Agency, in order to achieve the 2°C trajectory envisioned by the Pari s Agreement, the amount of annual investment in clean energy and energy efficiency must double from 2014 levels by 2020, reaching US$790 billion, and increase 18 Scotiabank, “Scotiabank’s Human Rights Statement”, (2019), at : http://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/canada/common/documents/pdf/Scotiabank_Human_Rights_Statement_Feb2 019.pdf . 19 Scotiabank, “Code of Conduct”, (2018), at: https://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/canada/en/documents/about/Code_of_Co nduct_EN.pdf . 20 Scotiabank Corporate Website, “Scotiabank’s Supplier Code of Conduct”, at: https://www.scotiabank.com/ca/en/about/inside - scotiabank/vendor - code - of - conduct.html . 21 Scotiabank, “2018 Sustainable Business Report”, (2018), at: https://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/canada/en/documents/about/2018_Sustainable_Business_Report_Final_ENG.pdf . 22 Scotiabank, “Annual Report 2018”, (2018), at: https://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/corporate/quarterly - reports/2018/q4/BNS_Annual_Report_2018.pdf 23 Scotiabank, “Scotiabank’s Human Rights Statement”, (2019), at: http://www.scotiabank.com/content/dam/scotiabank/canada/common/documents/pdf/Scotiabank_Human_Rights_Statement_Feb2019.pdf . 24 Global Risk Institute, “ Climate Change: Why Financial Institutions should take note ”, https://globalriskinstitute.org/publications/climate - change - why - financial - institutions - should - take - note/,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 7 almost six times by 2035. 25 The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) states that “ bank loans are the most important source of external finance for companies and will play a crucial role in steering businesses towards lower emission activities ”. 26 Scotiabank has explicitly recognized this challenge, and made Climate Change on e of the four pillars of i t s Sustainable Business Strategy. As part of this initiative, Scotiabank intends to actively support a transition to a low - carbon economy. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the eligible projects described in the Framework are consistent with this ambition, and that Scotiabank’s financing of eligible green assets will deliver environmental benefits broadly, and in particular support climate mitigation. The environmental impact of the p rojects funded by Scotiabank’s green bonds Scotiabank’s Framework defines as eligible a range of environmentally beneficial p rojects, across eight eligibility categories. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that loans to assets within all these areas have the potential to deliver positive enviro nmental impacts. Additionally, Scotiabank has disclosed to Sustainalytics a selection of projects that are being contemplated for inclusion in the green portfolio ; Sustainalytics has further assessed the below projects areas that are particularly innovativ e and that are anticipated to generate a large share of the green bond’s overall environmental benefits. Renewable Energy Greenhouse gas emissions from electricity and heat generation are the largest single source of global emissions, making up 42% of all emissions 27 and 49% of emissions from fuel combustion. 28 In this context, increasing the share of renewable energy generation has the potential to have significant impact on meeting climate goals. A study from the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the I nternational Renewable Energy A gency (IRENA) supports this assessment, estimating that 65 - 70% o f worldwide primary energy demand would need to be met by low - carbon energy sources by 2050 in order to meet the 2°C target. 29 Although in 2017, renewable energy grew more rapidly than other forms of generation, meeting a quarter of the global demand growth, 30 this rate of deployment must be ramped up to meet international targets. Sustainalytics considers Scotiabank’s financing i n the area of renewable energy to contribute positive ly to the global energy transition that is required to meet climate objectives. Green Buildings In 2017, the most recent year for which data is available, the buildings sector (excluding purchased energ y) contributed approximately 12% the total emissions in both Canada and the US . 31 32 Furthermore, t he UNEP reports that the energy intensity per unit of floor area in the buildings sector needs to improve by 30% worldwide in order to be aligned with the targe ts of the Paris Agreement. 33 Considering that, a ccording to a report from the US Green Building Council, the average LEED - certified green building uses 32% less electricit y than non - certified buildings, the financing of certified green buildings has the pot ential to contribute positively to these goals. In this context, Sustainalytics views positively the Framework’s inclusion of LEED, BOMA, BREEAM, and EnergySTAR certified buildings. Cle an T ransportation I n 2014 , the transportation sector as a whole was responsible for around 23% of CO 2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion globally . 34 According to a report by the International Transport Forum (ITF), a specialized intergovernmental organization within the OECD, CO 2 emissions in the sector have the potential to increase 60% by 2050 in the absence of proper mitigation measures. Moreover, the report also highlights that while the Nationally Determined Contribution of member states pledged to the Paris Climate Agreement provide CO 2 reduction ambitions, the measures proposed are not sufficiently clear in assess ing the environmental impact 25 IEA, “World Energy Outlook”, https://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publicat ion/WEIO2014.pdf 26 UNEP, “Financial Institutions Taking Action on Cliam3et Change”. http://www.unepfi.org/fileadmin/documents/FinancialInstitutionsTakingActionOnClimateChange.pdf 27 IES, “Emissions Statistics”, https://www.iea.org/statistics/co2emissions/ 28 World Bank, “CO2”, https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EN.CO2.ETOT.ZS 29 IRENA, “Perspectives for the Energy Transition 2017”, http://www.irena.org//media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2017/Mar/Perspectives_for_the_Energy_Transition_2017.pdf?la=en&has h=56436956B7 4DBD22A9C6309ED76E3924A879D0C7 30 IEA, “Global Energy & CO2 Status Report 2017”, https://www.iea.org/publications/freepu blications/publication/GECO2017.pdf 31 EPA, “Greenhouse Gas Emissions”, https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/sources - greenhouse - gas - emissions 32 Government of Canada, “Greenhouse Gas Emissions”, https://www.canada.ca/en/environment - climate - change/services/enviro nmental - indicators/greenhouse - gas - emissions.html 33 UNEP, “Global Status Report 2017”, https://www.worldgbc.org/sites/default/files/UNEP%20188_GABC_en%20%28web%29.pdf 34 Santos , G, “ Road Transport and CO2 emiss ions: What are the challenges”, October 2017, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0967070X17304262,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 8 of the transportation sector, and will likely miss their targets if growing emissions from passenger and freight mobility are not addre ssed . 35 Scotiabank has identified clean transportation options, including low - emissions mobility, environmentally friendly mass transit, and, as areas in which it can provide positive impacts in the clean transportation space. Sustainalytics views the finan cing of projects in this area as providing environmental benefits, and note in particular that financial - sector actors such as Scotiabank have a particular role to play in large infrastructure projects, such as those required for rail - based mass transit. Certified Environmental Activities Within the use of proceeds categories of e nvironmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use and t errestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation , Scotiabank may provide loans to qualifying companies and projects in a variety of sectors, including agriculture, forestry, and fisheries. Due to the array of environmental impacts and benefits that activities within these industries may generate, the Framework defines reputable third - party certifi cations that can be used to qualify eligible projects. Refer to Appendices 2 - 4 for further overview of the reference certifications. Although the specific environmental benefits will vary based on the individual projects, environmental intervention in thes e areas are an important part of both the transition to a low - carbon economy and environmental protection more broadly. For example, improved forest management globally, including avoiding deforestation and restoring degraded forests, could result in remov ing seven billion tonnes of CO 2 from the atmosphere annually, 36 while agricultural is the second - heaviest emitting sector, responsible for approximately 13% of anthropogenic carbon emissions. 37 In this context, Sustainalytics considers Scotiabank’s lending to environmentally friendly operations to provide substantial positive impacts. Energy Efficiency Improvements in energy efficiency are generally considered one of the most cost - effective ways to mitigate environmental imp act, in particularly by deferring the need for the provision of new energy supply. The IEA projects that energy efficiency improvements have the potential to contribute to 35% of the carbon savings needed to meet global climate goals. 38 Scotiabank’s intende d loans in this area are of particular importance, as the American Council for an Energy - Efficient Economy has identified that financing is “vital” for achieving the substantial energy savings that can result from “deep retrofits”. 39 Considering the forgoin g, Sustainalytics is confident that eligible projects within this area of the Framework will deliver positive environmental impacts. Alignment with/contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agend a for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. This green bond advances the following SDG goals and targets: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Energy Efficiency 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency Pollution Prevention and Control 12. Responsible Consumption and Production 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use 15. Life on Land 15.A Mobilize and significantly increase financial resources from all sources to conserve and sustainably use biodiversity and ecosystems Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation 14. Life Below Water 14.2 By 2020, sustainably manage and protect marine and coastal ecosystems to avoid significant adverse imp acts, including by strengthening their resilience, and take action for their restoration in order to achieve healthy and productive oceans 35 ITF, “Transport Outlook 2017”, January 2017, https://www.itf - oecd.org/sites/default/files/docs/transport - co2 - paris - climate - agreement - ndcs.pdf 36 Griscom et al, “Natural Climate Solutions”, https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1710465114 37 WRI, “Agricultural Emissions”, https://www.wri.org/blog/2014/05/everything - you - need - know - about - agricultural - emissions 38 IEA, “Economic value of energy efficiency can drive reductions in global CO2 emissions”, https://www.iea.org/newsroom/news/2018/april/e conomic - value - of - energy - efficiency - can - drive - reductions - in - global - co2 - emissions.html 39 ACEEE, “Deep retrofits: Financing needs to play a critical role”, https://aceee.org/blog/2019/05/deep - retrofits - financing - needs - play,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 9 Clean Transportation 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, access ible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with special attention to the needs of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and older persons Sustainable W ater and Wastewater Management 6. Clean Water and Sanitation 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water - use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the numb er of people suffering from water scarcity Green Buildings 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other wast e management Conclusion Scotiabank has developed a framework, under which it intends to issue green bonds, with the proceeds being used to fund loans to companies or projects with environmental benefits, in the areas of renewable energy, energy efficiency, pollution prevention and control, environmentally sustainable management of living nat ural resources and land use, t errestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation clean transportation, clean transportation, sustainable water and wastewater management, and green buildings. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the lending described by the framework will provide positive environmental impacts and support Scotiabank’s Sustainable Business strategy . All of the use of proceeds categories specified in the framework are aligned with those of the Green Bond Principles 2018; Scotiabank has charge d its Assets & Liabilities committee with oversight of its green bond program me ; transparent procedures have been put in place for the management and tracking of funds; and, commitments have been made to report on allocation and impacts. Furthermore, Susta inalytics believes that the initiatives funded by the green bond will contribute to the advancement of various UN Sustainable Development Goals. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Scotiabank is well - positioned to issue green bonds, a nd that the Scotiabank Green Bond Framework is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2018.,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 10 Appendices Appendix 1 : Comparison of Referenced Green Building Certification Schemes LEED Energy Star BOMA BEST BREEAM Background Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a US Certification System for residential and commercial buildings used worldwide. LEED was developed by the non - profit U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) and covers the design, construction, mainten ance and operation of buildings. ENERGY STAR is a U.S Environmental Protection Agency voluntary program that provides independently certified energy efficiency ratings for products, homes, buildings, and industrial plants. Certification is given on an ann ual basis, so a building must maintain its high performance to be certified year to year. BOMA BEST, administered by the Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) of Canada, is a certification program for existing buildings. The assessment considers performance and operation of buildings in a wide range of performance and operations categories. BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) was first published by the Building Research Establishment (BRE) in 1990. Based in th e UK, this scheme can be u sed for new, refurbished and extension of existing buildings. Certification levels  Certified  Silver  Gold  Platinum  1 - 100 score, 75 is minimum for certification  Certified  Bronze  Silver  Gold  Platinum  Pass  Good  Very Good  Excellent  Outstanding Areas of assessment  Energy and atmosphere  Sustainable Sites  Location and Transportation  Materials and resources  Water efficiency  Indoor environmental quality  Innovation in Design  Regional Priority  Energy use  Energy  Water  Air  Comfort  Health and Wellness  Custodial  Purchasing  Waste  Site  Stakeholder Engagement  Management  Energy  Land Use and Ecology  Pollution  Transport  Materials  Water  Waste  Health and Wellbeing  Innovation Requirements Minimum requirements independent of level of certification; point - based scoring system weighted by category to determine certification level. The rating system is adjusted to apply to specific sectors, such as: New Construction, Major Renovation, Core an d Shell Development, Schools - /Retail - /Healthcare New Construction and Major Renovations, and Existing Buildings: 1 - 100 score based on energy use, as calculated through the Portfolio Manager tool. Raw score is adjusted based on l ocation, operating conditions, and other factor s . The numerical score indicates p erformance better than at least 75 percent of similar buildings nationwide. Minimum requirements independent of level of certification; score based on checklist to determine certification level. The minimum best practices and category scoring is adjusted for seven different asset classes: office, enclosed shopping centres, light industrial, open air retail, universal, MURB, and health care. Minimum requirements depending on the level of certification; scoring system weighted by category, producing a percentage - based overall score. The m ajority of BREEAM issues are flexible, meani ng that the client can choose which to co mply with to build their performance score. BREAAM has two stages/ audit reports: a ‘BREEAM Design Stage’ and a ‘Post Construction Stage’, with different assessment criteria.,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 11 Operation and Maintenance. Qualitative Considerations Widely accepted within the industry, both in North America and internationally, and considered a guarantee of strong performance. Accounts only for energy use, not other measures of environmental performance. Is a key component of other green building cert ification systems. Most commonly used certification for existing buildings in Canada, and considered less administratively burdensome for existing buildings. Used in more than 70 countries: Good adaptation to the local normative context. Predominant enviro nmental focus, lower levels are less strict than LEED. Performance display,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 12 Appendix 2 : Overview of Referenced Fishery Sustainability Certifications Marine Stewardship Council 40 Aquaculture Stewardship Council 41 Friend of the Sea Background Marine Stewardship Council (MSC ) is a non - profit organization founded in 1996, that issues eco - label certifications for fisheries which are sustainable and well - managed. The Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) is an independent, international NGO tha t manages the ASC certification and labelling program for responsible aquaculture. Friend of the Sea is an organization founded by the Earth Island Institute NGO, and currently run by the World Sustainability Organization. Clear positive impact Promoting sustainable fisheries practices. Promoting sustainable aquaculture practices. Promoting sustainable fisheries and aquaculture practices. Minimum standards A minimum score must be met across each of the performance indicators. As a condition to certification, low - scoring indicators must be accompanied by action plans for improvement. Quantiative and qualitative thresholds which are designed to be measurable, metric - and performance - based . Certification may be granted with a “variance” to certai n requirements of the standard. This variance is designed to allow the standard to adapt to local conditions, but has been criticized for weakening the standard and overriding the consultations involved in the standard - setting process. Minimum standards, classified as “essental” or “important”, must be fully met. These two categories are distinguished by the time period alloted to undertake corrective actions. Additional “reccomendations” are not required for certiication, but defficiencies in these areas are noted in audit reports. Scope of certification or programme The MSC standard consists of a fisheries standard and a chain of custody standard. The Fishery Standard assesse three core principles: sustainable fish stocks, minimising environmental i mpact, and effective fisheries management; collectively these account for the major environmental and social impacts. The Chain of Custody standard addresses certified spirchsing, product identification, seperation, traceability and records, and good mana gement. ASC encompasses nine farm standards, covering 15 fish species as well as the harvest of seaweed. These farm standars lay out minimum requirements regarding both environmental and social performance. Additionally, a Chain of Custody Standard is mandatory for all supply chain actors in order to ensure traceablity. Friend of the Sea certifies both wild fisheries and aquaculture, as well as various other related industries such as whale watching, restaur ants, aquaria and ornamental dish, and products such as UV creams. Verification of standards and risk mitigation Third - party conformity assessment bodies (CAB s ) , certified by Accreditation Service International (ASI) carry out assessments in line with th e MSC standard and ISO 17065 . Certification is valid for up to five years. Third - party conformity assessment bodies (CAB s ) , certified by Accreditation Service International (ASI) carry out assessments in line with the ASC standard and ISO 17065 . Major non - compliances must be remedied within three months. On - site audits are carried out by Conformity Assessment Bodies, which are accredited by Friend of the Sea. 40 https://www.msc.org/standards - and - certification/fisheries - standard 41 https://www.asc - aqua.org/what - we - do/our - standards/farm - standards/,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 13 Third party expertise and multi - stakeholder process Aligned with the UN Code of Conduct for Re ponsible Fishing, and further informed by the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) , World Trade Organization (WTO), and International Social and Environmental Accreditation and Labelling (ISEAL) Developed in line with United Nation’s Food and Agric ulture Organization ( UN FAO) and International Labour Organisation (ILO) principles. Managed in accordance with the International Social and Environmental Accreditation and Labelling (ISEAL) Codes of Good Practice. Accredited by the International Accred iation Forum and Accredia, the Italian Accreditation Body. The certification follows best - practice guiedlines from the United Nation’s Food and Agriculture Organization and the International Social and Environmental Accreditation and Labelling (ISEAL). Performance display Qualitative considerations The MSC label is the most widely recognized sustainable fisheries label worldwide, and is generally accepted to have positive impacts on marine environments. Proponents of the label cite the transpar ent science - based process for approval and its successful engagement with industry groups. C riticism from various observers include lack of focus on preventing by - catch, protecting marine mammals and endangered species, follow - up on conditions, crew safety , and live tracking of supply chains. Widely recognized, and modeled on the successful MSC certification. Some criticism has been focused on the ability to certify with a “variance”, in which certain aspects of the standard can be interpreted or waived during the audit procedure. While a reputable certification overall, the standard does not fully mitigate a ll the risks associated with aquaculture. The largest single certifier of sustainable wild seafood by volume, Friend of the Sea is highly visible in the European market and has partnerships with several major retailers. While the FOS certification is re cognized to adequately address many of the environmental and social risks, it has faced some critici sm regarding its transparency in stakeholder interactions.,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 14 Appendix 3 : Sustainalytics’ Analysis of FSC and PEFC Certifications Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) , including PEFC’s North American implementation as the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), are both based on rigorous standards and o n a multi - stakeholder structure. Both org anizations are in line with international norms such as the International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions, the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). I n addition to compliance with laws in the country of certification, both schemes have a set of minimum requirements that companies are required to meet to obtain and maintain certifications. These requirements include compliance with standards around susta inable management of forests, management of environmental impact s of operations, preservation of biodiversity, management of socio - economic and community relations, and sourcing of sustainable wood (chain of custody). Furthermore, both FSC and PEFC require external annual audits to ensure compliance, and achieve and maintain certification. Despite these similarities, PEFC has faced certain criticisms from civil society actors. These are highlighted below: (i) Type of organization: Since the FSC is an internati onal labelling and certification system, it sets its own global standards. The PEFC, in contrast, is not a standard setter, but a mutual recognition scheme. The PEFC sets sustainability benchmarks according to international norms and endorses national cert ification schemes that comply with these benchmarks. A common criticism of this model is that it allows for more flexibility in the interpretation of international PEFC benchmarks as per regional, cultural, and socio - economic context, and results in the en dorsement of less rigorous national certification schemes. However, the process for being endorsed by the PEFC is thorough; any national certification system seeking to obtain PEFC endorsement must submit to a comprehensive assessment process, including in dependent evaluation and public consultation. This evaluation of compliance with international PEFC benchmarks is carried out by independent, accredited certification organizations. (ii) Indigenous People’s Rights: FSC and PEFC both identify indigenous rights as an important standard in forest management. Both certification schemes require that forest management activities consider and do not infringe on indigenous people’s rights, and the activities are carried out using frameworks ensuring their free and informed consent. A criticism of PEFC is that it requires only engagement with indigenous people in forest management decisions, while the FSC provides performance - oriented targets, and requires forest managers oper ating on indigenous lands to obtain indigenous people’s consent through binding agreements. (iii) Sourcing wood from non - certified sources: Both FSC and the PEFC have established standards around sourcing wood from non - certified and controversial sources. FSC’ s standards direct forest managers to avoid wood harvested in violation of traditional and civil rights. A criticism of the comparable PEFC standard is that it limits identification of controversially sourced wood to situations where the local legislation is violated. However, PEFC standards explicitly reference the violation of local, national, and international legislation with regards to worker’s and indigenous people’s rights as being a controversial source of wood.,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 15 Appendix 4 : Overview of Referenced Agriculture Sustainability Certifications Canada Organic EU Organic USDA Organic Rainforest Alliance FAIRTRADE Background Canada Organic is a regulatory certification implemented by the Government of Canada’s Canadian Food Inspection Agency, based on authorities granted in section 13 of the SFCR regulation. A Canada Organic claim applies to food, feed, or seed that is produced in or imported to Canada. The EU Organic Farming is a European wide label organized under the Europ ean Commission’s Council Regulation (EC) no 834/2007. The regulation covers the organic production and labelling of organic products including live or unprocessed agricultural projects, processed agricultural products for use of food, feed, and vegetative propagating material and seeds for cultivation. The USDA Organic label is a US certification system overseen, administered and enforced by the National Organic Program of the United States Department of Agriculture. The US Organic label is regulated by th e US Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 and involves input from the National Organic Standards Board (a Federal Advisory Committee made up of 15 members of the public) and the public. The Rainforest Alliance Seal is a global certification system for Agr iculture, Forestry and Tourism. The Rainforest Alliance certification indicates compliance with the organization’s standards for environmental, social and economic sustainability. Rainforest Alliance merged with UTZ in January 2018. The FAIRTRADE Mark is a global certification system that seeks to address power imbalances in trading relationships. Organizations certified to Fairtrade standards must meet general, trade, product and business development requirements. Clear positive impact Promote sustainable agricultural pro cesses and products. Promotion of a sustainable management system that respects nature’s systems, contributes to biological diversity, uses energy responsibly, respects high animal welfare standards. Promoting sustainable farmi ng practices that improve water quality, conserve energy, increase biodiversity and contribute to soil health. Promoting sustainable practices in agriculture, forestry and tourism. Promoting sustainable practices for agricultural products, consumer good s and gold. Minimum standards The Canada Organic regulation prohibits specific chemicals, and mandates minimum standards for agricultural practices. The EU Organic Farming system prohibits the use of GMOs (minimum 95% GMO free), the use of ionizing ra diation and sets core requirements for plant production, production rules for seaweed, livestock production rules, production rules for aquaculture animals. The USDA Organic seal sets strict production and labeling requirements:  produced without genetic e ngineering, ionizing radiation or sewage sludge  produced using allowed substances based on a comprehensive list of authorized synthetic and non - synthetic substances overseen by a USDA NOP authorized agent Rainforest alliance establishes a minimum threshold for impact through critical criteria, and requires farmers to go beyond by demonstrating improved sustainability on 14 continuous improvement criteria. Fairtrade has a set of core requirements that must b e met and development requirements that are intended to foster continuous improvement and which certified producers must make progress on. Scope of certification or programme Specific standards apply to crop production, livestock production, aquaculture , chain of custody, and products. The regulations also specifically name prohibited and permitted substances. The EU Organic Farming system addresses key risks such as substance use (e.g. pesticides, soluble fertilizers, soil conditioners or plant protec tion products), the maintenance and enhancement of soil life, natural soil fertility, soil stability and biodiversity, preventing and combating soil damage (compaction, erosion). The USDA Organic system addresses key risks such as substance use through th e regulation of synthetic and non - synthetic substances to preserve soil quality and in line with federal guidelines on animal raising practices, pest and weed control and the use of additives. Rainforest alliance addresses key risks such as human rights, child labour, pesticide use and biodiversity use through its criteria. Fairtrade addresses key risks through its requirements, including child labour, forced labour and pesticide use. Verification of standards and risk mitigation Certification of products and processors is granted by CBs, Certified entities undergo audits to ensure compliance with criteria and The USDA seal has a twofold enforcement mechanism, one by Organic Certifiers and one by the Certified entities undergo third party verification to ensure compliance with Certified entities undergo audits to ensure compliance with criteria,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 16 and requires annual verification. continuous improvement at least once a year, or more often based on a risk assessment. USDA Agricultural Marketing Services. The two bodies undergo audits to ensure compliance with criteria and continuous improvement at least once a year or unannounce d. criteria and continuous improvement. and continuous improvement. Third party expertise and multi - stakeh older process Developed by the Government of Canada through a consultative legislative process. The EU Organic Farming is a government - based standard resulting from public consultations and third - party deliberations in line with the European Commission’s typical legislative approach. The USDA Organic seal is organized by the National Organic Program which develops the rules and regulations for the production, handling, labeling and enforcement of all USDA organic products. This process receives input fro m the national Organic Standards Board (a Federal Advisory Committee made of 15 members of the public) and the general public. Standard setting is aligned with the ISEAL Standard Setting Code. Standard setting is aligned with the ISEAL Standard Setting Cod e. Performance Display Third - party verified Certification Bodies (CBs) are accredited by Conformity Verification Bodies (CVBs), which are in turn accredited by the Canada Food Inspection Agency. Every Member State must designate one or more private and/or public control authorities in charge for the organic production and labelling of organic products in the EU Member States. 80 certifying agents are USDA accredited and authorized to certify oper ations under the USDA organic standards. 48 of the 80 certifying authorities are US based and 32 are in foreign countries. Most certifying agents are directly accredited by the USDA National Organic Program, with an additional 21 members being officially a uthorized through recognition agreements between US and other governments.  Africert  Conservacion y Desarrollo Certified S.A.  Imaflora  IMO India  CERES  IBD  Indocert  NaturaCert  Productos y Procesos Sustenables, A.C.  NEPCon FLO - CERT GmbH. FLO - CERT is the largest certifier for Fairtrade, responsible for the certification of all producers and most traders. Qualitative considerations The Canada Organic ceritification is the onlyu legally recognized organiz scheme in Canada, and applies to both imports and domestically - produced agriculture products. The EU Organic Farming system is widely recognized across all 28 Member States. Current ly, 11.9% million hectares are currently certified under the system, with the whole organic area representing 6.2% of the total utilized agricultural area in the European Union. Under the USDA Organic seal, the US federal legislation allows thre levels of organic foods, namely: purely organic products made entirely with certified organic ingredient and labeled 100% organic, products with at least 95% organic ingredients. Both categories are allowed to be certified USDA Organic. A third category with at leas t 70% organic ingredients may be labeled as “made with organic ingredients”, but cannot display the USDA Organic seal. Global recognition across 76 countries around the world. There are 763 Rainforest Alliance certified products and more than 1,354,057 pe ople which have conducted training, certification and verification under the Rainforest Alliance standard. Rigurous on the enforcement of minimum standards and strong governance over the implementaton of social and environmental mitigation processes. Gl obal recognition across 74 countries present in the Fairtrade System. The system covers 1.4 million farmers and workers in 1,140 producer organizations. The Fairtrade certification scheme is less strict on the scope of the environmental and social require ments as it does not cover human rights issues and impact on biodiversity.,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 17 Appendix 5 : Green Bond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: The Bank of Nova Scotia Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] Scotiabank Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: June 17, 2019 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an u pdate and add reference to earlier relevant review] Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detailed review,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 18 Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible cat egories for the use of proceeds are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles. Sustainalytics considers that projects in the areas of renewable energy, energy efficiency, pollution prevention and control, environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use, terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation, clean transp ortation, sustainable water and wastewater management, and green buildings will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , in particular Goals 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, and 14 . Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☒ Energy efficiency ☒ Pollution prevention and control ☒ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☒ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☒ Clean transportation ☒ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☒ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☒ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): Scotiabank’s Asset & Liability Committee, which includes senior executives, is charged with reviewing and approving eligible assets, as well as ongoing oversight and the coordination of reporting. This is in line with market practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 19 ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☒ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Scotiabank’s Treasury team is responsible for the management of proceeds, and will earmark an amount equivalent to the net proceeds for allocation to eligible green assets originated or refinanced no more than 36 months prior to issuance. Allocations will be tracked on a quarterly basis, and Scotiabank will, on a best efforts basis , substitute other assets should a given loan no longer be considered eligible. This is in line with market practice Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable):,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 20 Scotiabank has committed to annual allocation and, where feasible, impact reporting. Allocation reporting will be provided at the category level, and will also disclose the balance of unallocated proceeds. Impact reporting will include relevant quantitativ e performance indicators. This is in line with market practice. Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☒ Energy Savings ☒ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Various, as specified in Framework Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): Published to corporate website ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section.,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 21 USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the indepen dence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environm ental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to busin ess processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may al so be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature suc h as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 22 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 201 9 . All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights to this Second - Party Opinion (the “Opinion”) are vested exclusively in Sustainalytics. Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing by Sustainalytics, no part of this Opinion may be reproduced, disseminated, comin gled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made available to third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form or in any manner, be it electronically, mechanically, through photocopies or recordin gs, nor publicly released without the “Green Bond Framework” in conjunction with which this Opinion has been developed. The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to provide objective information on why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and responsibl e, and is intended for investors in general, and not for a specific investor in particular. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any lia bility for damage arising from the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, the information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics does not warrant that the i nformation presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibility for errors or omissions. Any reference to third party names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. Further more, nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as an investment advice (as defined in the applicable jurisdiction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have foc used on the effective allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments’ compliance, implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated ve rsions, the English language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion Scotiabank Green Bond 23 Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm that support s investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with institutional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes . Spanning 30 countries, the world’s leading issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for second - party opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds Standard Board as a verifier organization, and supports various stakeholders in the development and verification of their frameworks. In 2015, Global Capital awarded Sustainalytics “Best SRI or Green Bond Research or Ratings Firm” and in 2018 and 2019, named Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider. The firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Climate Bonds Initiative as well as Environmental Finance in 2018, and in 2019 was named the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” by the Climate Bonds Initiative. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special Mention Sustainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan and the Minister of the Env ironment Award in the Japan Green Contributor category of the Japan Green Bond Award s in 2019. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us in fo@sustainalytics.com