© Sustainalytics 201 9 Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioel é trica d o Mondego Green Bond Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that SBM’s Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor ies for the use of proceeds : renewa ble energy, and p ollution p revention and c ontrol are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples. Sustainalytics considers that the biomass power plant will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Go al 7 and 1 2 . SBM’s internal process for evaluating and selecting projects is in line with market practice. Projects are proposed to SBM’s Investment Working Group (IWG) and screened for corporate social responsibility relevance. Screened projects then go to the Green Bond Committee , composed of representatives from relevant departments at Altri Group, SBM’s indirect parent company, wh ich evaluates the eligibility against the criteria in the framework and determines whether to proceed. SBM’s processes for management of proceeds i s handled by the Finance Department at Altri Group , the indirect owner of SBM . All proceeds will be allocated and tracked through an internal management system that defines the destinat ion of cash - flows, sets reserved accounts for unallocated proceeds and periodically adjusts the net proceeds. SBM may invest unallocated proceeds according to its liquidity and/or liability management activities. This is aligned with market practice. SBM intends to make allocation reporting available on an annual basis until the full allocation of the bond . The company will hire a third - party auditor to provide external validation of allocated funds. In addition , SBM is committed to impact reporting on relevant metrics on an annual basis . Sustainalytics views SBM’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Evaluation date 22 February 2019 Issuer Locatio n Leirosa, Marinha das Ondas , Portugal Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ .................. 7 For inquires , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Joshua Zakkai (Amsterdam) Project Manager joshua.zakkai@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 00 79 Evan Bruner (Amsterdam) Project Support Evan.bruner@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 0027 Jean - Claude Berthelot (Amsterdam) Client Relations Jean - claude.berthelot @sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 00 15,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 2 Introduction Sociedade Bio e l é trica d o Mondego (SBM o r “the company” ) is wholly owned by Bioelétrica da Foz , which is a wholly - owned subsidiary of the Altri Group. The company is primarily engaged in the construction, operation and maintenance of a 34.5 MW capacity biomass power plant in Figue ira da Foz, Portugal. Altri , the indirect parent company of SBM, owns and operates three pulp mills in Portugal – Celbi, Caima and Celtejo – which have the capacity to produce over a million tonnes of fibr e annually. Through its subsidiary, Altri Florestal, Altri is also involved in the management of more than 80,000 hectares of forests in Portugal , which are certified to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC ® ) and Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certi fication (PEFC). SBM has developed the SBM Green Bond Framework under which it is considering issuing a green bond and us ing the proceeds exclusively to finance the development of a 34.5 MW capacity biomass power plant, which will be attached to the pulp mill of its sister company, Celbi . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in the following areas: 1. Renewable and Clean Energy 2. Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control A description of the eligible project for the 201 9 g reen b ond issuance is provided in Appendix 1. SBM engaged Sustainalytics to review the S BM Green Bond Framework, dated February 15 , 2019 and provide a second - party opinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) . 1 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 2 As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of SBM’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects o f SBM’s green bond. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of th e Green Bond Framework and sh ould be read in conjunction with th at F ramework. 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ 2 The Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond Framewo rk is available on Altri’s website at: www.altri.pt>investors>greenfunding,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 3 Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on SBM’s Green Bond Framework Sustainalytics is of the opinion that SBM’s Green Bond F ramework is credible , impactful and aligns with the four cor e components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of SBM’s green bond framework : Use of Proceeds: o SBM will use the proceeds of the g reen b ond to invest in a biomass power plant that will generate renewable energy to be used by Altri Group, SBM’s indirect owner, and its affiliates, while simultaneously generating additional renewable energy capacity for Portugal’s national energy grid. The eligible project is aligned with the Green Bond Pri nciples 2018 . SBM confirmed to Susta i nalytics that t he proceeds of the bond will go exclusively to financing the biomass power plant project and will not be used for re - financing of any kind. o Sustainalytics notes that t he SBM biomass power plant will rely on natural gas to a minimal extent in situational contexts, including start - up, shut - down transitions and emergency situations . At the request of Sustainalytics, the company has provided data on the expected significance of natural gas with regards to the energetic contribution to the boiler, electricity production and direct GHG emissions. Based on this disclosure, Sustainalytics is satisfied that the overall importance of fossil fuels is very limited . For example, SBM estimates that natural gas is ex pected contribute approximately 0.1% of energetic input to the boiler . Furthermore, SBM estimates the facilit y’ s future carbon intensity at approximately 125 g CO 2 eq/kWh , which is above the threshold recommended by Sustainalytics 3 but nonetheless represents a major reduction compared to the average carbon intensity of Portugal’s national electricity supply , which is 295 g CO 2 eq/kWh. It is not eworthy that the expected emissions intensity of the facility was not calculated using a lifecycle assessment approach, and only considers direct emissions in relation to units of energy produced. As a result , the carbon intensity figure provided by SBM does not account for the carbon sequestration potential of the forests from which biomass feedstocks are harves ted. o While reliance on any fossil fuel use is generally to be avoided , the amount being used in the proposed power plant is seen as minimal, and , according to SBM , this minimal use is required for plant start - up, shut - down , transitions and emergency situations , as noted above . As such, Sustainalytics views this project to contribute to GHG reduction and to be aligned with the Green Bond Principles and market norms. o The biomass power plant will make use of residual forest biomass which w ill be sourced from forest units managed by Altri Florestal, which are certified to the responsible forestry schemes of FSC ® and PEFC and purchased from controlled sources to farmers and forest growers . Sustainalytics views these schemes as credible and re sidual biomass as an acceptable supply source. 4 Furthermore, as discussed in Section 3 of this document, by creating a demand for residual biomass , this project will help reduce the risk of forest fires. o Furthermore, Sustainalytics positively notes the inc lusion of technologies to limit emissions to air from the biomass power plant, nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, and hydrochloric acid and hydrofluoric acid. These investments include ammonia - based solutions that react with emissions to render them less harmful, as well as filtering systems. Project Evaluation and Selection: o The project evaluation and selection process is facilitated by the Investment Working Group (IWG) , which is formed by SBM d irectors who follow the mandate from Altri’s Board of Directors . All proposed projects are screen ed by the IWG for their relevance to corporate social responsibility , before making their way to the Green Bond Committee (GBC) , which is composed of members f rom several departments of Altri Group (namely, Engineering, Environmental & Sustainability, Forestry and Finance) . The Green Bond Committee subsequently decides whether the proposed project aligns with eligibility criteria outlined in 3 Sustainalytics recommended carbon intensity for electricity generated from biofuels is 100g/CO 2 e/kWh, which is informed by the Climate Bonds Standard 4 See Appendix 2 for Sustaina lytic’s view on FSC and PEFC certifications.,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 4 the Framework and should be pursued . Sustainalytics views the project evaluation and selection process established by SBM as consistent with market practices. Management of Proceeds: o The net proceeds of the bond will be managed by the company’s financial department. Track ing of disbursements to eligible green projects will be facilitated by an internal management system that will define the destination of cash - flows, set reserved accounts for the non - invested funds and periodically adjust the net proceeds to match allocations to the project . Proceeds not immediately disbursed to the project will be held . SBM may invest unallocated proceeds according to its liquidity and/or liability management activities. This is in line with market practice. Reporting: o SB M will provide allocation reporting on an annual basis in its annual report, which will be accessible on the Altri website. The reporting will include the total amount of allocated funds, the unallocated amount and the remaining outstanding total. Addition ally, the company will hire a third - party auditor to verify cash flows until full allocation. This demonstrates a best practice approach to reporting. o In addition to allocation reporting, SBM intends to annually report on impact metrics related to renewabl e energy , and pollution prevention and control . The proposed metrics for these impact categories includes total installed renewable energy capacity , annual renewable energy production, GHG emissions avoided , nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SOx), hydrochloric and hydrofluoric acids (HCL/HCF) . Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determined that SBM ’s g reen b ond aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 3 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of the Issuer Contribution of framework to issuer’s sustainability mandate/ strategy /targets In its sustainability policy, Altri , SBM’s indirect parent company, has a stated commitment to give priority to the use of renewable sources of energy . 5 T he sustainability report includes a comprehensive overview of environmental performance across a varie ty of key indicators including energy, emissions, waste and water . 6 The company has demonstrated relatively consistent improvements for energy use and carbon and , specifically, has been able to significantly reduce dependence on externally - acquired electri city. This has been coupled with improvements in energy efficiency optimization and reduction of CO 2 emissions , which have decreased 18% since 2015 . As such, the company has made clear efforts to improve its energy efficiency, reduce dependence on fossil f uels and reduce its overall carbon footprint. However, it should be noted that the group ’s air and water emissions have remained relatively stable . 7 8 Sustainalytics encourages the development of measurable targets and action plans for addressing these impa cts. It is notable that the entirety of Altri Group’s forests under management are certified to FSC ® and PEFC standards, which Sustainalytics considers to be robust and credible guidance for forest management practices. Overall, the company has demonstrat ed a strong commitment towards environmental responsibility and has a robust Environmental Management System. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that SBM is well positioned to issue a green bond and that the proposed SBM bio mass power plant , which will be lo cated at a Celbi pulp mill, also owned by Altri Group, will further contribute to the group ’s overall goals of increasing its use of renewable energy while providing a sustainable end of life use for residual forest products . Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While Sustainalyltics supports the development of renewable energy infrastructure, it is recognized that the development of a biomass power plant will have assoc iated environmental and social risks such as soil and 5 Celbi 2017 Environmental Statement available at: http://www.altri.pt/~/media/Files/A/Altri - V2/environment/CELBI_ DA2017_EN_Web.pdf 6 Altri Group 2017 Sustainability Report available at: http://www.altri.pt/~/media/Files/ A/Altri - V2/reports - and - presentations/reports/english/2017/ALTRI_Relat_Sustentabilidade_2017_EN.pdf 7 Celbi 2017 Environmental Statement available at: http://ww w.altri.pt/~/media/Files/A/Altri - V2/environment/CELBI_DA2017_EN_Web.pdf 8 Altri Group 2016 Sustainability Report available at: http://www.altri.pt/~/media/Files/A/Altri - V2/reports - and - presentations/reports/english/2017/ALTRI_Relat_Suste ntabilidade_2017_EN.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 5 groundwater pollution (TSS and COD) , air emissions (SOx, NOx, VOCs) , hazardous working condition s , potential negative impacts on local communities close to the operations and sourcing unsustainable biom ass. To manage these risks , the following actions have been implemented: • Celbi, which is owned by Altri Group, and operates the pulp mill that SBM’s biomass project will be attached to adheres to operational standards to mitigate potential environmental an d social risks associated with the development of a new biomass power plant, including Eco - Management and Audit Scheme ( EMAS ) , ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and OHSAS 18001 . 9 Furthermore, the SBM facility to be funded by green bond proceeds will be covere d by ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 through its parent - company Bio e l é trica da Foz. Sustainalytics believes that certification to these standards demonstrates alignment with market practice and is adequate for mitigating associated environmental and social risks. • The company has an accompanying set of sustainability policies, many of which are specifically targeted at mitigating environmental and social risks related to waste, pollution, worker ’s health an d safety and stakeholder engagement. In addition to the EU and ISO accreditations, the company has developed a model for the assessment of environmental impacts, which defines the level of risk associated with environmental impact s of operati onal processes and has establishe d control measures to reduce these risks . The model is publicly disclosed in the company’s Environmental Statement . 10 • S ourcing biomass from unsustainable sources may foster deforestation, deplet ion of carbon pool or compet ition with food production . The feedstocks for the proposed project will be sourced from Altri Florestal forest units which are certified under the FSC ® and PEFC responsibly forestry certification schemes and fro m other controlled sources ( private or public ) . A lthough the residual forest biomass is not a certified product, the use of residual forest biomass is considered by Sustainalytics to be in line with market practices . As such , Sustainalytics highlights that SBM will not use potentially controversial feeds tock sources , including peat, palm oil and plastics , for example . Based on the above Sustainalytics considers that S B M, its parent company and the broader Altri Group have implemented adequate measures to mitigate environmental and social risks associated with the construction and operation of a new biomass power plant. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds The use of proceeds categories is recognized as impactful by GBP. Sustainalytics has focused on two below where the impact is specifically relevant in local context. The contribution of the framework to supporting Portug uese and European sustainability goals S BM intends to use 100% of t he green bond proceeds to invest into the development and maintenance of a biomass power plant. The plant is projected to generate 34.5 MWH /yr for the p ublic e lectricity s ystem, which will contribute to achieving the renewable energy goals outlined in Port ugal’s National Energy Strategy 2020 (ENE 2020) . Specifically, the project will contribute to ENE 2020 renewable energy Axis 2 “Betting on Renewable Energy”, which aims to promote the development of a national renewable energy industrial sector including the diversification of renewable energy types and a reduction in external dependence . 11 In addition, the Portug u ese government has set a national target of 769 MW of biomass electricity by 2020. As of 2017, biomass energy was providing an estimated 5.1% (73 5 MWH) of the electricity produced in Portugal , 12 out of 43.3% total renewable energy . In comparison, wind power represented 21.6%, hydropower 15%, solar power 1.6% and the remaining 56.7% energy are still derived from fossil fuels , all of which comes from imported sources . 13 Sustainalytics considers the project to contribute to increase the locally produced renewable energy in Portugal. 9 Celbi 2017 Environmental Statement available at: http://www.altri.pt/~/media/Files/A/Altri - V2/environment/CELBI_DA2017_EN_Web.pdf 10 C elbi 2017 Environmental Statement available at: http://www.altri.pt/~/media/Files/A/Altri - V2/environment/CELBI_DA2017_EN_Web.pdf 11 National Energy Strategy 202 0 (ENE 2020) available at: https://www.iea.org/policiesandmeasures/pams/portugal/name - 24739 - en.php 12 The use of biomass in Portugal available at: https://www.macedovitorino.com/xms/files/2017/The_use_of_biomass_in_Portugal_macedo_vitorino_associados.pdf 13 An Overview of the Portu guese Energy Sector available at: https://www.mdpi.com/1996 - 1073/11/12/3259/pdf,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 6 Furthermore, the project will contribute to two of the broader European 20 - 20 - 20 targets , which include (i) 20% reduction in CO 2 em issions compared to 1990 levels; (ii) 20% of the energy, based on consumption, coming from renewables . 14 Sustainalytics believes that the biomass power plant will increase Portugal’s total production of biomass and contribute to both national and EU renewable energy goals. However, it is important to note that the power plant will rely on natural gas during start - up, shutdown and other operational transition situations that require supplementary power. Nonetheless, given the very limited contributi on of natural gas in terms of energetic input, electricity production and GHG emissions, as confirmed by SBM, Sustainalytics views the project as impactful. Forest fire risk management using residual forest products for biomass Portugal has one of the highest forest fire risk ratings in Europe and has adopted aggressive policies to help reduce the risk of forest fires 15 . In 2017 more than 500,000 hectares w ere burned, setting the record for the most land burnt in Portugal. Unmanaged forests and forests w ith high volumes of residual biomass , which act as fuel for forest fires in excessively dry climates , pose an increased risk for forest fires , 16 17 highlighting the importance of ensuring these materials are managed appropriately . By creating a demand for the use of residual biomass, the SBM biomass power plant project has the potential to encourage the management of forests and reduce the overall amount of residual biomass, thereby indirectly reducing the risk of forest fires in Portugal. Given, that biomass will be sourced exclusively from residual forest materials resulting from Altri Group’s forestry activities, Sustainalytics views SBMs biomass plant as an important driver of demand for these materials, which can contribut e to a reduction of forest fire ri sk in the Portuguese context. Alignment with/contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. This green bond advances the following SDG goals and targets: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Pollution Prevention and Control 12. Responsible Consumption and Production 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmental ly sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and th e environment Conclusion SBM, a wholly - owned subsidiary of Altri Group, has established the SBM Green Bond Framework with the intention of funding the development of a new biomass power plant project next to an existing pulp mill owned by Celbi, a partner company that is also owned by Altri Group. By focusing on reducing external dependence on fossil fuel - based electricity sources and adding renewable energy capacity to the grid, Sustainalytics is of the opin ion that the project will help the company achieve its own sustainability goals while simultaneously contributing to Portugal’s national energy policy targets, EU 20 - 20 - 20 targets related to renewable energy, energy efficiency and pollution prevention and control. The company has clearly outlined the use of proceeds and determined eligible categories: renewable energy and pollution prevention and control, which are aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles 2018 . Sustainalytics considers SB M’s process for project selection and evaluation , management of proceeds 14 2020 Climate & Energy Package available at: https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/strategies/2020_en 15 Portugal forest fire facts available at: https://www.safecommunitiesportugal.com/forest - fires/ 16 Forest fuel reduction availab le at: https://www.srs.fs.usda.gov/pubs/ja/ja_bolding002.pdf 17 Wildfires set to increase: could we be sitting on a tinderbox in Europe? Available at: https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2018/03/180307100722.htm,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 7 and reporting of allocation and impact to be aligned with market practice. Based on these points, Sustainalytics considers the SBM Green Bond Framework to be credible, impactful and t ransparent. Appendices Appendix 1: Overview of the SBM Biomass Power Plant Project SBM will use the proceeds of this Green Bond to fund a biomass power plant project in Portugal. The biomass plant will be constructed at the Celbi industrial facility site , where there is already a similar biomass power plant owned by SBM’s parent company. Celbi is a pulp production plant that produces bleached short - fibre pulp from eucalyptus. The biomass plant will produce net electricity generation of 34.5 MWt, all elect ricity not consumed by production site will be sold back to the Portuguese national grid. As such, the biomass plant will contribute to both national and EU renewable energy targets and reduce dependence on the use of fossil fuels. By providing an end - use for residual forest biomass, which can act as a fuel during forest fires, the power plant can help contribute to reducing the risk of forest fires in one of the EU’s highest risk nations. Appendix 2 : Sustainalytics’ Analysis of FSC and PEFC Certification s FSC and PEFC are both based on rigorous standards and on a multi - stakeholder structure. Both organizations are in line with international norms such as the International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions, the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), an d the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). In addition to compliance with laws in the country of certification, both schemes have a set of minimum requirements that companies are required to meet to obtai n and maintain certifications. These requirements include compliance with standards around sustainable management of forests, management of environmental impact of operations, preservation of biodiversity, management of socio - economic and community relatio ns, and sourcing of sustainable wood (chain of custody). Furthermore, both FSC and PEFC require external annual audits to ensure compliance and achieve and maintain certification. Despite these similarities, PEFC has faced certain criticisms from civil soc iety actors. These are highlighted below: (i) Type of organization: Since the FSC is an international labelling and certification system, it sets its own global standards. The PEFC, in contrast, is not a standard setter, but a mutual recognition scheme. The PEFC sets sustainability benchmarks according to international norms and endorses national certification schemes that comply with these benchmarks. A common criticism of this model is that it allows for more flexibility in the interpretation of internation al PEFC benchmarks as per regional, cultural, and socio - economic context, and results in the endorsement of less rigorous national certification schemes. However, the process for being endorsed by the PEFC is thorough; any national certification system see king to obtain PEFC endorsement must submit to a comprehensive assessment process, including independent evaluation and public consultation. This evaluation of compliance with international PEFC benchmarks is carried out by independent, accredited certific ation organizations. (ii) Indigenous People’s Rights: FSC and PEFC both identify indigenous rights as an important standard in forest management. Both certification schemes require that forest management activities consider and do not infringe on indigenous pe ople’s rights, and the activities are carried out using frameworks ensuring their free and informed consent. A criticism of PEFC is that it requires only engagement with indigenous people in forest management decisions, while the FSC provides performance - o riented targets, and requires forest managers operating on indigenous lands to obtain indigenous people’s consent through binding agreements. (iii) Sourcing wood from non - certified sources: Both FSC and the PEFC have established standards around sourcing wood f rom non - certified and controversial sources. FSC’s standards direct forest managers to avoid wood harvested in violation of traditional and civil rights. A criticism of the comparable PEFC standard is that it limits identification of controversially source d wood to situations where the local legislation is violated. However, PEFC standards explicitly reference the,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 8 violation of local, national, and international legislation with regards to worker’s and indigenous people’s rights as being a controversial sour ce of wood. Appendix 3 : Green Bond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Sociedade Bioel é trica do Mondego Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] Sociedade Bioel é trica do Mondego Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: February 22 , 2019 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an update and add reference to earlier relevant review] Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarize the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above.,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 9 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : o SBM will use the proceeds of the green bond to invest in a biomass power plant that will generate renewable energy to be used by Altri Group, SBM’s indirect owner, and its affiliates, while simultaneously generating additional renewable energy capacity for Portugal’s national energy grid. The eligi ble project is aligned with the Green Bond Principles 2018. SBM confirmed to Sustainalytics that the proceeds of the bond will go exclusively to financing the biomass power plant project and will not be used for re - financing of any kind. o Sustainalytics no tes that the SBM biomass power plant will rely on natural gas to a minimal extent in situational contexts, including start - up, shut - down transitions and emergency situations. At the request of Sustainalytics, the company has provided data on the expected s ignificance of natural gas with regards to the energetic contribution to the boiler, electricity production and direct GHG emissions. Based on this disclosure, Sustainalytics is satisfied that the overall importance of fossil fuels is very limited. For exa mple, SBM estimates that natural gas is expected contribute approximately 0.1% of energetic input to the boiler. Furthermore, SBM estimates the facility’s future carbon intensity at approximately 125g CO 2 eq/kWh, which is above the threshold recommended by Sustainalytics 18 but nonetheless represents a major reduction compared to the average carbon intensity of Portugal’s national electricity supply, which is 295g CO 2 eq/kWh. It is noteworthy that the expected emissions intensity of the facility was not calculated using a lifecycle assessment approach, and only considers direct emissions in relation to units of energy produced. As a result, the carbon intensity figure p rovided by SBM does not account for the carbon sequestration potential of the forests from which biomass feedstocks are harvested. o While reliance on any fossil fuel use is generally to be avoided, the amount being used in the proposed power plant is seen as minimal, and, according to SBM, this minimal use is required for plant start - up, shut - down, transitions and emergency situations, as noted above. As such, Sustainalytics views this project to contribute to GHG reduction and to be aligned with the Green Bond Principles and market norms. o The biomass power plant will make use of residual forest biomass which will be sourced from forest units managed by Altri Florestal, which are certified to the responsible forestry schemes of FSC ® and PEFC and purchased fr om controlled sources to farmers and forest growers. Sustainalytics views these schemes as credible and residual biomass as an acceptable supply source. 19 Furthermore, as discussed in Section 3 of this document, by creating a demand for residual biomass, th is project will help reduce the risk of forest fires. o Furthermore, Sustainalytics positively notes the inclusion of technologies to limit emissions to air from the biomass power plant, nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, and hydrochloric acid and hydrofluori c acid. These investments include ammonia - based solutions that react with emissions to render them less harmful, as well as filtering systems. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☒ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use 18 Sustainalytics recommended carbon intensity for electricity generated from biofuels is 100g/CO 2 e/kWh, which is informed by the Climate Bonds Standard 19 See Appendix 2 for Sustainalytic’s view on FSC and PEFC certifications.,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 10 ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): o The project evaluation and selection process is facilitated by the Investment Working Group (IWG), which is formed by SBM directors who follow the mandate from Altri’s Board of Directors. All proposed projects are screened by the IWG for their relevance to corporate social responsibility, before making their way to the Green Bond Committee (GBC), which is composed of members from several departments of Altri Group (namely, Engineering, Environmental & Sustainability, Forestry and Finance). The Green Bond Co mmittee subsequently decides whether the proposed project aligns with eligibility criteria outlined in the Framework and should be pursued. Sustainalytics views the project evaluation and selection process established by SBM as consistent with market pract ices. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☒ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) :,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 11 o The net proceeds of the bond will be managed by the company’s financial department. Tracking of disbursements to eligible green projects will be facilitated by an internal management system that will define the destination of cash - flows, set reserved accounts for the non - invested funds an d periodically adjust the net proceeds to match allocations to the project. Proceeds not immediately disbursed to the project will be held. SBM may invest unallocated proceeds according to its liquidity and/or liability management activities. This is in li ne with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): o SBM will provide allocation reporting on an annual basis in its annual report, which will be accessible on the Altri website. The reporting will include the total amount of allocated funds, the unallocated amount and the remaining outstanding total. Additionally, the company will hire a third - party auditor to verify cash flows until full allocation. This demonstrates a best practice approach to rep orting. o In addition to allocation reporting, SBM intends to annually report on impact metrics related to renewable energy, and pollution prevention and control. The proposed metrics for these impact categories includes total installed renewable energy capa city, annual renewable energy production, GHG emissions avoided, nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SOx), hydrochloric and hydrofluoric acids (HCL/HCF). Use of proceeds reporting: ☒ Project - by - project ☐ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 12 ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting: ☒ Project - by - project ☐ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify): • Total installed renewable energy capacity, • Annual renewable energy production, • N itrogen oxide (NOx), • S ulfur dioxide (SOx), • H ydrochloric and hydrofluoric acids (HCL/HCF) Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☒ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☐ Other (please specify): ☒ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Allocation of funds will be third - party verified. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) Altri Group website Altri Group 2017 Sustainability Report Celbi 2017 Environmental Statement SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided:,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 13 ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certificatio n ☒ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the i nstitution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/o r processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteri a, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying as sets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment o f reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognized external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bon d framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialized research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on envi ronmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 14 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 201 9 . All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights to this Second - Party Opinion (the “Opinion”) are vested exclusively in Sustainalytics. Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing by Sustainalytics, no part of this Opinion may b e reproduced, disseminated, comingled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made available to third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form or in any manner, be it electronically, mechanically , through photocopies or recordings, nor publicly released without the “Green Bond Framework” in conjunction with which this Opinion has been developed. The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to provide objective information on why the analyzed bond is cons idered sustainable and responsible, and is intended for investors in general, and not for a specific investor in particular. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the substa nce of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, the information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainal ytics does not warrant that the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibility for errors or omissions. Any reference to third party names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable uni verses and/or portfolios. Furthermore, nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as an investment advice (as defined in the applicable jurisdiction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic performance and credit worthi ness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments’ compliance, implementation and monitoring.,Second - Party Opinion Sociedade Bioelétrica do Mondego Green Bond 15 Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a le ading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm that support investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with insti tutional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 countries, the world’s leading issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for secon d - party opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds Standard Board as a verifier organization and supports various stakeholders in the development and verification of their frameworks. Global Ca pital named Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider in 2017. In 2018, the firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Climate Bonds Initiative as well as Environmental Finance. In addition, Sustainalytics receive d a Special Mention Sustainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan for its contribution to the growth of the Japanese Green Bond Market. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com