© Sustainalytics 201 9 Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that th e Swiss Life Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018. This assessment is based on the following: The eligible category for the use of proceeds , green buildings, is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples. Sustainalytics considers that investments into green buildings wil l lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , particularly G oal 11 : Sustainable Cities and Communities . Swiss Life’s internal process in evaluating and selecting projects i s man aged by the Green Bond Committee . The Committee is responsible for ens uring eligible green assets are aligned with eligibility criteria outlined in the Framework and adding/removing assets from the eligible asset pool in the event that existing assets no l onger meet the criteria. The Committee meets on a n annual basis to rev iew the portfolio. This process is aligned with market practice. Swiss Life ’s processes for management of proceeds is managed jointly by the Proprietary Asset M anagement and Capital Management teams . Swiss Life intends to establish an internal process to track allocation of proceeds to eligible green assets. Pending full a ll ocation, funds will be invested on a temporary basis in accordance with Swiss Life’s liqui dity management activities, and in accordance with relevant internal policies . This process is aligned with market practice. Swiss Life i ntends to report allocation proceeds on the Company’s website on an annual basis , until full allocation o f proceeds . In addition, Swiss Life is committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics . Sustainalytics views Swiss Life ’s allocation and impact repor ting as aligned with market practice. Evaluation date October 14, 2019 Issuer Locatio n Zurich, Sw itzerland Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ .................. 6 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Amanda Ackerman (Amsterdam) Project Manager amanda.ackerman@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 0088 Evan Bruner (A msterdam) Project S upport evan . bruner @sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 00 27 Jean - Claude Berthelot (Amsterdam) Client Relations susfinance.emea @sustainalytics.com (+ 44) 20 3880 0193,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 2 Introduction Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, the Swiss Life Group (“Swiss Life” or the “Company”) is Switzerland’s largest life insurance company and one of Europe’s largest comprehensive life, pension and financial service providers. The Company primarily operates in Switzerland, Germany and France with compe tency centres in Luxembourg, Lichtenstein and Singapore . Swiss Life’s owned IFAs operate in different markets and choose suitable market products for customers. Swiss Li fe Asset Managers offers institutional and private investors access to solutions for in vestment and asset management . Swiss Life employs a workforce of approximately 8,600. Swiss Life has developed the Swiss Life Green Bond Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it intends to issue G reen B ond s and use an amount equal to the proceeds to f inance/refinance, in whole or in part, investments in existing/future green building projects, specifically related to the fulfilment of eligibility criteria as defined in the Framework . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in one area: 1. Green Buildi ngs Swiss Life engaged Sustainalytics to review the Swiss Life Gree n Bond Framework November 2019 and provide a second - party opinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) . 1 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 2 As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Swiss Life ’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceed s, as well as management of proceeds and report ing aspects of G reen B ond s to be issu ed under the Framework . Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Swiss Lif e Green Bond Framework and should be read in conjunction with th at F ramework. 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - socia l - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ 2 The Swiss Life Green Bond Framework is available on Swiss Life’s website at: https://www.swisslife.com/en/home/inv estors/bonds - and - ratings.html,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 3 Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on th e Swiss Life Green Bond Framework Sustainalytics is of the opinion that t he Swiss Life Green Bond Frame work is c redible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of Swiss Life’s G reen B ond F ramework : • Use of Proceeds: - Swiss Life intends to finance and/or refinance green buildings. Proceeds are recognized as impactful by the GBP . Investments will be made into the acquisition, development , re - development or renovation /refurbishment of existing buildings within its portfolio. - Specifically, the Company will invest into build ings with the following certifications : LEED ( Gold or above), BREEAM (Excellent or above) , HQE (Excellent or above) , or have obtained an EPC label of B or better 3 and/or with the Swiss energy efficiency certification Minergie 4 . Additionally, if a building is supplie d with 50% o r more renewable energy, it is considered eligible. Swiss Life also intends to invest into refurbishments/renovation of buildings that meet one of the above criteria or target s a 3 0% reduction in GHG. - Sustainalytics positively views financing/refinancing of green buildings that have attained green building certification labels , some of which have been assessed as credible and impactful (see Appendix 1). Sustainalytics views these investments as credible and impactful because they incr eas e the overall efficiency of the building market . Sustainalytics notes that it is n ot entirely clear whether some of the certifications/criteria mentioned above (specifically, EPC labels A/ B and/or 50% renewable energy) would target the top 15% of build ing stock . 5 However, Swiss Life has provided internal data indicating that Swiss Life ’s efforts aim to finance the most energy efficient buildings within its own stock and that the Company tracks the performance of its buildings . Sustainalytics encourages the Company to report transparently on the energy efficienc y gains of the related green building projects. - Sustainalytics notes that the Company has set a lookback period of 24 months prior to the date of issuance . • Project Evaluation and Selection: - Swiss Life has established a Green Bond Committee (the “Committee”) to manage the project evaluation and selection process. The Committee is comprised of the Head of Capital Management, Chief Risk Officer Asset Manager s , Head of Responsible Investment and Head Real Estate Portfolio Management PAM CH . The Committee is responsible for ensuring that proposed projects align with the Company’s internal responsible investment policy as well as the eligibility criteria outlined in the Framework. The Committee will meet on a n annual basis and will assess existing assets to ensure they continue to be aligned with the eligibility criteria. If an asset is no longer eligible, the Committee will strive to replace a new asset as soon as practically feasible as per market pract ice. • Management of Proceeds: - Swiss Life will establish an internal tracking system to monitor the allocation of green bond proceeds to eligible assets. This process will be managed jointly by the Proprietary Asset Management and Capital Management te ams. Pending full allocation of proceeds, unallocated proceeds will be temporarily held in accordance with Swiss Life’s liquidity management activities, and in accordance with the relevant internal Swiss Life policies . Sustainalytics views this process as align ed with market practice. • Reporting: - On an annual basis , until fully allocated , Swiss Life will report on both allocation of proceeds and relevant impact metrics. T he Company will report on the total amount of allocated proceeds by eligible green a sset cate gory, the amounts of financing vs refinancing and the amount of 3 Swiss Life internal classification based on the Swiss standard SIA 2031:2016. Energy class label ‘A’ indicates ≤ 42 kwh/m 2 energy reference area; ‘B’ corresponds to 60 - 42 kwh/m 2 energy reference area. 4 Minergie, Minergie - P, Minergie - A, Minergie ECO; Mine rgie, “Minergie”, (2019), at: https://www.minergie.ch/ 5 Top 15% based on energy performance within a given city or state,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 4 unallocated proceeds. In addition , Swiss Life intends to report on CO 2 emissions avoided on the following basis: ▪ The differential of the selected assets’ greenhouse gas emissions compared to a benchmark asset (GHG differential per m 2 energy reference area) ▪ The impact of renovations and construction on the asset s ’ greenhouse gas emissions (GHG reduction per m 2 energy reference area) Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determined that the Swiss Life G reen B ond F ramework aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . For detailed information please refer t o Appendix 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Sec tion 2: Sustainability Strategy of Swiss Life Contribution of framework to Swiss Life’s sustainability targets Swiss Life places a high value on its overall operational environmental impact and its role in climate protection. As part of the Company’s commitmen t to environment a nd climate protection, Swiss Life set out Grou p - wide goals for sustainability in 2018, which are focused on operational sustainability. 6 The Company aims to make an active contribution to climate production and reduce CO 2 emissions while simultaneously rai sing internal Company awareness of environment al and climate protection. The company has established the following operational ecology goals for the Swiss Life Group: 6 • A reduction of GHG Emissions by 10% by 202 1 compared to 2016 baseline • Increase the share of renewable electricity used in buildings to 100% by 2021 • Continuously reduce use of fossil fuels in business premises within its investment cycles Regarding progress towards these goals, Sustainalytics note s that while the company grew via acquisitions between 2017 and 2018, the Group’s relative GHG emissions (kg/FTE) stayed relatively constant, while relative energy consumption (kW h /FTE) decreased . This demonstrate s that the Group’s investments into green b uildings will be important for ensuring GHG emissions and total energy consumption do not increase relative to company growth . Sustainalytics positively notes the Group’s transparent reporting and considers investments into green buildings to be important and relevant to the attainment of the operational ecology goals. Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects Sustainalytics acknowledges the overall positive impact that investments into green buildings w ill generate. However, as with any large - scale infrastructure projects, potential environmental and social risks must be mitigated to avoid a ny adverse negative impacts . Swiss Li fe contracts out development work to c onduct the activities that will be finan ced . W hen conducting contracts with suppliers and service providers, Swiss Life requires all supplier guidelines to be met, which are relevant to non - discrimination, worker health and safety laws, adherence to environmental and climate p rotect ion standards . 7 Add itionally, Swiss Life activities take place in Designated Countries under the Equator Principles, which further ensures that adequate environmental and social governance legislation is in place to mitigate the common environmental and social risks re lated to the development activities be financed. As such, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Company’s supplier code of conduct and national legislation are adequate to mitigate potential risks and the Company is well - positioned to issue green bonds . Sec tion 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds 6 Swiss Life, “Environmental Responsibil ity,” (2019), at: https://www.reports.swisslife.com/reports/swisslife/annual/2018/gb/English/107028/environmental - responsibi lity.html 7 Swiss Life, “Annual Report 2018”, (2019), at: https://www.reports.swisslife.com/reports/swisslife/annual/2018/gb/English/1070/corporate - responsibility.html,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 5 The use of proceeds categor y, green buildings, is recognized as impactful by the GBP. Sustainalytics has focused below where the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. The role of green buildings in c ontributing to Switzerland’s climate targets At the end of August 2019, Switzerland ramped up its climate target to reduce its net carbon emissions to zero by 2050. 8 As a country that is particularly affected by climate change, where temperatures are risin g twice as quickly as the global average, achieving this target and mitigating global warming to less than 2 degrees by 2100 is a particularly important issue. 9 The country has estimated that CO 2 emissions from transport, buildings and the industrial secto r can be reduced by up to 95% through the implementation of technologies that already exist and through further util ization of renewable energy sources. 8 As of 2018, approximately 50% of Switzerland’s primary en ergy consumption was attributable to buildings: 30% for heating, cooling and water, 14% for electricity and 6% for construction/maintenance. 10 In recognition of the impact of the building sector on the total national GHG emissions, in 2016, the Swiss Govern ment introduced an Energy Act which i ntroduced regulations on the maximum share of non - renewable energy , the installation and replacement of electric heaters, building renovations, renewable energy production and energy efficiency. As such, by investing in to buildings that have obtained certi ficates from reputable green building certification schemes, Swiss Life is contributing to reduction in the overall energy consumption and impact of the building sector in Switzerland. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Swiss Life’s investments into certified green buildings will contribute to national climate targets and are credible, impactful and well aligned with the GBP 2018. Alignment with/contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goa ls (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030 . Any G reen B ond issued in accordance with the Framework advances the following SDG goals and targets: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Green Buildings 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management Conclusion Swiss Life’s Gree n Bond Framework will contribute to the Company’s sustainability goals , while helping to reduce the overall environmental footprint of the Swiss building stock. The proceeds of G reen B onds will finance low - carbon buildings and buildings which have made a s ignificant improvement in energy efficienc y as determined by a variety of green building certification schemes . In addition to contributing to the C ompany’s sustainability targets, these improvements will further contribute to the Swiss national climate ta rgets as well as the UN SDGs, as shown above. As such , Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Swiss Life is well - positioned to issue Green Bonds and the Swiss Life Green Bond Framework is credible, impactful and aligned with the GBP. 8 Swiss Governm ent, “F ederal Council aims for a climate - neutral Switzerland by 2050”, (2019), at: https://www.admin.ch/gov/en/start/documentation/media - releases.msg - id - 76206.h tml 9 Le News, “Climate change affecting Switzerland at twice the global rate”, (2019), at: https://lenews.ch/2019/06/12/climate - change - affecting - sw itzerl and - at - twice - the - global - rate/ 10 Swiss Government, “Energy in buildings”, (2018), at: https://www.bfe.admin.ch/bfe/en/home/supply/energy - efficiency/ energy - in - buildings.html,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 6 Appendices Appendi x 1: Sustainalytics’ Assessment of Green Building Certifications 11 BREEAM weighting: Management 12%, Health and wellbeing 15%, Energy 19%, Transport 8%, Water 6%, Materials 12.5%, Waste 7.5%, Land Use and ecology 10%, Pollution 10% and Innovation 10%. One point scored in the Energy item is ther efore w orth twice as much in the overall score as one point scored in the Pollution item HQE BREEAM LEED Minergie Background The Haute Qualité Environnementale or HQE (High Quality Environmental standard) is a standard for green building in France, based on the principles of su stainable development first set out at the 1992 Earth Summit. The standard was launched in 2005 and is controlled by HQE and certificate is issued by Cerway/ Certivea/ Cerqual. BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) was fi rst published by the Building Research Establishment (BRE) in 1990. Based in the UK. Used for new, refurbished and extension of existing buildings. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a US Certification System for residential and comm ercial buildings used worldwide. LEED was developed by the non - profit U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) and covers the design, construc tion, maintenance and operation of buildings. Minergie is a Swiss building standard for new and modernized buildings. T he brand is shared by industry, the cantons and the federal government and is protected against misuse. Certification levels Pass Good Very good Excellent Exceptional Pass Good Very Good Excellent Outstanding Certified Silver Gold Platinum Mine rgie Minergie - P Minergie - A Minergia - ECO Areas of Assessment: Environmental Project Management Global management system Management (Man) addresses various aspects: project management, deployment, minimal environmental disturbance worksite and stakeholder engagement. Integrative process, which requires, from the beginning of the design process, the identification and creatio n of synergies between the various project stakeholders regarding the construction choices and the technical systems. The planners choo se the appropriate Minergie standard together with the clients and develop a corresponding preliminary project. Areas o f Assessment: Environmental Performance of the Building Energy Environment (Site, Components, Worksite, Water, Waste, Maintenance) Com fort (Hydrothermal, Acoustic, Visual, Olfactory) Health (Spaces quality, Air Quality, Water Quality) Principles of Equi valence Energy Land Use and Ecology Pollution Transport Materials Water Waste Health and Wellbeing Innovation Energy and atmospher e Sustainable Sites Location and Transportation Materials and resources Water efficiency Indoor environmental quality Innovation in Design Regional Priority Energy source Energy demand Energy monitoring Heating/Cooling Airtightness E - Mobility Requir ements Prerequisites (independent of level of certification) + Points - based performance level: Performing and High Performing The Prerequisite level is obtained when all the minimum requirements for a target are met, while the Performing and High Performi ng levels are obtained based on a percentage of points given per target, all owing for flexibility. Prerequisites depending on the levels of certification + Credits with associated points This number of points is then weighted by item 11 and gives a BREEAM level of certification, which is based on the o verall score obtained (expressed as a percentage). Majority of BREEAM issues are flexible, meaning that the client can choose which to comply with to build their BREEAM performance score. Prerequisites (independent of level of certification) + Credits with associated points These points are then added toget her to obtain the LEED level of certification There are several di fferent rating systems within LEED. Each rating system is designed to apply to a specific sector (e.g. New Construction, Major Renovation, Core and Shell Development, Schools - The applicant submits the application to the responsible Minergie certification body, in paper form and via the Minergie Online Platform (MOP) The Minergie certification body reviews the application and can ask questions or ad ditional claims. Once all requirements have been met, the provisional certificate will be issued. It serves for planning security and can be used for advertising purposes: The project may now be called a Minergie building.,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 7 Based on the total number of stars obtained per area, an overall HQE level is then given. Environmental certificates are assigned at all stages of the bui lding life cycle, and on - site audits are required. BRE E AM has two stages/ audit reports: a ‘BREEAM Design Stage’ and a ‘Post Construction Stage’, with different assessment criteria. /Retail - /Healt hcare New Construction and Major Renovations, Existing Buildings: O peration and Maintenance). When t he building is being create d. If desired, the Minergie relevant aspects can be checked by MQS Bau. Once the building has been properly commissioned, the applicants will subm it the documents for the construction confirmation. They therefore report to the certification body the com pletion of the construction measures as well as their planning - compliant realization. The experts assume responsibility. The certification body chec ks the submitted documents and carries out random checks on every fifth project, possibly even during the c onstruction phase. Subsequently, the definitive certificate is handed out. A definitive certificate with label number guarantees a Minergie house. A subsequent optimization of the building services with MQS operation complements the Minergie quality contro l in an ideal way. Performance display Accreditation HQE Construction Certification Referent HQE Operations Certification Advisor BREEAM International Assessor BREEAM AP BREEAM In Use Assessor LEED AP BD+C LEED AP O+M Minergie certification body,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 8 Appendix 2: Green Bond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Swiss Life Group Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] Swiss Life Review provider ’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: October 21 , 2019 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an update and add reference to earlier relevant review] Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW Th e following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarize the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide sep arate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above.,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 9 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible category for the use of proceed s, green buildings, is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles . Sustainalytics considers that investments into green buildings will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , particularly Goa l 11 : Sustainable Cities and Communities . Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☐ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustai nable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☒ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable ): Swiss Life’s internal process of evaluating and selecting projects is managed by the Green Bond Committee. The Committee is responsible for ensuring eligible green assets are aligned with eligibility criteria outlined in the Framework and adding/removi ng assets from the eligible asset po ol in the event that existing assets no longer meet the criteria. The Committee meets on a n annual basis to review the portfolio. This process is aligned with market practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 10 ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented proce ss to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Sel ection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Swiss Life’s processes for management of proceeds is managed jointly b y the Proprietary Asset Management and Capital Management teams . Swiss Life intends to establish an internal process to track allocation of proceeds to eligible green assets. Pending full allocation, funds will be invested on a temporary basis in accordance with Swiss Life’s liquidity management activities, and in accordance with the relevant internal Swiss Life policies. This process is aligned with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to futu re investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable):,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 11 Swiss Life intends to report allocation proceeds on the Company’s website on an annual basis, until full allocation of proceeds. In addition, Swiss Life is committed to reporting on relevant impa ct metrics. Sustainalytics views Swiss Life’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (plea se specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): E xternal report published on website ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, pl ease specify name and date of publication in the useful links section.,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 12 USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) https://www.reports.swisslife.com/reports/swisslife/annual/2018/gb/English/1070/corporate - responsibility.html SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second Party Opinion : An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as informatio n bar riers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issu er’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independe nt ve rification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the en viron mentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceed s, st atement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognized external gr een s tandard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An i ssuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialized research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating metho dology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless ref lect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 13 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 201 9 . All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights to the information contained herein is vested exclusively in Sustainalytics. No part of this deliverable may be reproduced, dissem inate d, comingled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made available to third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form or in any manner, be it electronically, mechanically, through photocopie s or recordings without the express written consent of Sustainalytics. As the information herein is based on information made available by the issuer, the information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics does not warrant that the information p resen ted in this deliverable is complete, accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibility for errors or omissions and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the substance of the deliverable and/or any liability for damage arising f rom t he use of this deliverable and/or the information provided in it. Any reference to third party names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. Nothing contained in this de liver able shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty on the part of Sustainalytics, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in companies, selection of projects or make any kind of business transactions. It shall not be cons trued as an investment advice (as defined in the applicable jurisdiction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor its creditworthiness. The issuer is fully responsible for certifyi ng and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring.,Second - Party Opinion Swiss Life Green Bond 14 Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm that support s investors around the wor ld with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with institutional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 cou ntries, the world’s leading issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for second - party opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds Standar d Board as a verifier organization and supports various stakeholders in the development and verification of their frameworks. In 2015, Global Capital awarded Sustainalytics “Best SRI or Green Bond Research or Ratings Firm” and in 2018 and 2019, nam ed Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider. The firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Climate Bonds Initiative as well as Environmental Finance in 2018, and in 2019 was named the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” by the Climate Bonds Initiative. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special Mention Sustainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan and the Minister of the Environment Award in the Japan Green Contributor category of the Japan Green Bond Award s in 2019. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us info@sustainalytics. com