© Sustainalytics 201 9 Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation (“Tokyu Fudosan Holdings ” or “the C ompany”) Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018 (GBP) . This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor ies for the use of proceeds 1) G reen B uildings, and 2) R enewable E nergy, are aligned with the GBP . Sustainalytics considers that Tokyu Fudosan ‘s eligible projects will deliver positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Developmen t Goals 7 and 9 . Projects are selected by the Finance Department and the Sustainability Promotion Department according to the eligibility criteria and final deci sions will be made by the officer s administering the Departmen ts . Sustainalytics views this process as aligned with market practices. The Finance Department is assigned to tracking the amount of allocated and unalloca ted proceeds on a semiannual basis, using the C ompany’s internal management system. Unallocated proceeds will be held in cash or cash equivalents , a nd the Company has commit ted to allocat ing the proceeds in less than 18 months. The Company's management of proceeds is aligned with market best practices. Tokyu Fudosan Holdings intend s to provide a report on its website annually regarding the allocation of proceeds and positive environmental impacts of financed projects. The allocation reporting will include the amount of allocated proceeds on a project category basis, the amount of unallocated proceeds , and the amount allocated to refinancing, while the environmental impact reporting will provide, environmental impact metrics relevant to project category, including names of financed projects, types and levels of certificat ion s received, and the amount of CO 2 emissions reduced ( t - CO 2 ) . Sustainalytics considers Tokyu Fudosan Holdings’ reporting a s aligned with market practices. Alignment with Japa n’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Green Bond Framework (the “Framework”) is in line with the Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 . The g uidelines communicate what an issuer should do to issue a credible green bond, and also highlight what an issuer is recommended to do. Sustainalytics assessed the alignment between the Framework and the ‘requirements of’ items outlined in the Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 . Evaluation date November 21, 2019 Issuer Locatio n Tokyo, Japan Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ ................ 10 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Wakako Mizuta ( T okyo ) Project Manager wakako.mizuta@sustainalytics.com (+81) 3 45 10 2343 Marie Toyama ( T okyo ) Project Support marie.toyama@sustainalytics.com (+81) 3 4510 2343,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 2 Introduction Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation (“Tokyu Fudosan Holdings” or “the Company”) is a holding company whose subsidiaries include Tokyu Land Corporation , Tokyu Community Corp , and Tokyu Livable, Inc. . The Company and its subsidiaries constitute the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group, a comprehensive real estate group. The Company has a business portfolio comprising of seven segments (urban development, residential, property management, real estate agents, wellness, Tokyu Hands, and innovation) and owns and oper ates office buildings, commercial facilities, fitness clubs, resort facilities, and senior - citizen residen ce s , a nd is engaged in condominium sales , property management , and real estate agent transactions , mainly in Japan. Tokyu Fudosan Holdings has deve loped the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it intends to issue green bonds and use the proceeds to finance and/ or refinance, projects in Japan that provide positive environmental impact . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in the following areas: 1. Green Buildings 2. Renewable Energy a. Solar power generation b. Wind power generation Tokyu Fudosan Holdings engaged Sustainalytics to review the Framework , dated November , 2019 and provide a second - party opinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2018 (GBP) , as administered by the International Capital Market Association (the “ICMA”) . 1 A summary overview of th e Framework has been provided in Appendix 1. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Tokyu Fudosan Holdings ’ Group Finance Department and Sustainability Promotion Department to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework . Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with th at F ramework. 1 The GBP are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainabili ty - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 3 Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Green Bond Framework Summary Sustainalytics i s of the opinion that the Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the GBP . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of the F ramework : • Use of Proceeds: - The two eligibility categories for the use of proceeds, 1) Green Buildings and 2) Renewable Energy, are recognized by the Green Bond Principles as project categories with clear environmental benefits. Please refer to Section 3 for Sustainalytics’ in - depth assessment of environmental benefits expected from the use of proceeds. - In the Green Buildings category, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings plans to allocate proceeds to capital investments including development, construction, and renovation costs . Sustainalytics hol ds a positive view of these capital investments as they will lead to greater environmental benefits compared to the use of proceeds for operational expenditure . - Under the Company’s eligibility criteria for Green Buildings, proceeds will be directed toward s properties that have received, or will receive, top two levels of third - party green building certifications, i.e. CASBEE for Buildings (New Construction, Existing Buildings, and Renovation), CASBEE for Real Estate, BELS, LEED - BD+C, LEED - O+M, and DBJ Gree n Building Certification. Sustainalytics views that the application of the above eligibility criteria by Tokyu Fudosan Holdings is aligned with market best practices. Please see Appendix 2 for an overview and comparison of green - building certification sche mes. - In the Renewable Energy category, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings intends to use Green Bond proceeds for capital investments in solar and wind power generation businesses. Sustainalytics considers that such energy sources have positive impacts on the environm ent and can contribute to measures against climate changes. - Tokyu Fudosan Holdings plans to allocate Green Bond proceeds to new and/or existing projects. Tokyu Fudosan Holdings applies a lookback period of three years and allocates Green Bond proceeds onl y to: 1) green buildings that were completed, or whose green - building certifications were obtain ed/renewed, within three years prior to the Green Bond issuance date; and 2) renewable energy projects that began operation within the same period as mentioned above. Sustainalytics recognizes that investors prefer a lookback period of two to three years, and therefore considers that the Company’s look - back period is aligned with market preferences. • Project Evaluation and Selection: - Tokyu Fudosan Holdings allocates Green Bond proceeds to projects that are selected by the Finance Department and the Sustainability Promotion Department according to the eligibility criteria , and final deci sion s will be made by t he officer s administering the Department s . Sustainalytics considers that the Company's project evaluation and selection process is in line with market best practices. • Management of Proceeds: - Tokyu Fudosan Holdings’ Finance Department is assigned to track ing the amount of allocated and unallocated proceeds on a semiannual basis, using the Company’s internal management system. Unallocated proceeds will be held in a form of cash or cash equivalents and the Company has committed to allocating the proceeds in less than 18 months. Sustainalytics views that the Company's process for management of proceeds is in line with market best practices. • Reporting: - Tokyu Fudosan Holdings intend s to report on the allocation of proceeds on its website annually until the entire amount of proceeds is allocated , and when necessary in the event that material changes occur even after full allocation . The report will include the amount of allocated,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 4 proc eeds on a project category basis , the amount of unallocated proceeds , and the amount allocated to refinancing. The Company is also committed to issuing annual impact reporting on its website until the maturity of Green Bond, providing the following quantitative environmental impact metrics : 1) for green buildings, the names of properties or projects , types and levels of certifications obtaine d, amount of CO 2 reduced (t - CO 2 ) , amount of CO 2 emissions reduced per floor area(kg - CO 2 / ㎡ ), amount of energy co nsumption(GJ), and amount of water consumption( ㎥ ) ; and 2) for renewable energy projects, the names of financed projects, amount of power generated (kwh) , and amount of CO 2 reduced (t - CO 2 ) . Sustainalytics considers that the Company’s reporting is aligned with market practices. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determined that the Framework aligns to the four core components of the GBP . For detailed information please refer to Ap pendix 3 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Alignment with Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 Japan ’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 communicate what an issuer should do to issue a credible green bond, and also highlight what an issuer is r ecommended to do. Sustainalytics assessed the alignment between the Framework and the ‘requirements of’ items outlined in the Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 . ICMA Green Bond Principles 2018 and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines, 2017 2 Alignment with GBP and with Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines Sustainalytics’ comments on alignment with Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 . 3 1. Use of Proceeds Yes The two use of proceeds categories , 1) Green Building and 2) Renewable Energy , specified by Tokyu Fudosan Holding s within the Framework , are recognized by Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 as a project categor ies with clear environmental benefits. In the Framework, the Company also provides explanations about environmental risks associate d with eligible projects and its measures to mitigate such risks, allowing investors to access in advance. 2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection Yes Tokyu Fudosan Holdings describes in the Framework that the issuance of the Green Bond is aimed at implementing its environmental policy , medium - and long - term management plan, and medium - term management plan. The Framework also provides eligible criteria for the use of proceeds and explains that projects are evaluated and selected by members of the Finance Department and the Sustainability Promotion Department according to the eligibility criteria . F inal deci s ion s will be made by the officer s administering the Department s . 3. Management of Proceeds Yes The allocation and management of proceeds will be undertaken by the 2 Green Bond Guidelines, 2017, Summary, Ministry of the Environment, Japan: https://www.env.go.jp/en/policy/economy/gb/summary2017.pdf 3 For detailed comments on alignment with ICMA GBP, please see Appendix 3 .,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 5 Finance Department. An internal management system will be used to monitor, on a semi - annual basis, the amount of Green Bond proceeds allocated and unallocated to eligible assets. The Framework explains that unallocated proceeds will be managed in the form of cash or cash equivalents. 4. Reporting Yes In the Framework, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings commit ted to reportin g on the allocation of proceeds annually on the corporate website until the proceeds are fully allocated to eligible projects , and when necessary in the event that material changes occur including after full allocation . The disclosure will include the amount of allocated p roceeds on a project category basis , the amount of unallocated proceeds , and the amount allocated to refinancing. The Company has also explained that it will provide an annual impact report o n its website until the maturity of the Green Bond, disclosing environmental impact metrics including : 1) for Green Buildings, names of the allocated properties or projects , types and levels of certifications obtain ed, amount of CO 2 reduced (t - CO 2 ), amount of CO 2 emissions reduced per floor area(kg - CO 2 / ㎡ ), amount of energy consumption(GJ), and amount of water consumption( ㎥ ) ; and 2) for Renewable Energy Projects, the names of financed projects, amount of power generated ( kwh ) , and amount of CO 2 reduce d(t - CO 2 ) . Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of the Issuer Contribution of framework to Tokyu Fudosan Holdings ’ sustainability strategy Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings has integrated its sustainability efforts into its management strategy by setting the following policies and targets, and has articulated its commitment to ensuring sustainability through its business activities. ▪ Through its environmental policy, t he Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group has committed to “making efforts to harmonize the environment and the economy through business activities,” and coping with five environmental issues of (i) climate change, (ii) biodiversity conservation, (iii) pollut ion and resources, (iv) water use, and (v) supply chain. 4 As a measure against climate change, the Company has promised to promote an efficient use of energy and the deployment of renewable energies at its business facilities and owned properties, setting a target of reducing CO 2 per floor area of business offic es and of real estate portfolio , on a Group - wide basis, by 25% by FY2020 and 30% by FY2030 from the FY2005 level. 5 Additionally, Tokyu Land Corporation, the Company’s whol ly - own subsidiary and the Group’s core 4 Tokyu Fudosan Holdings, “Environmental Conservation Initiatives”, at: https://tokyu - fudosan - hd - csr.disclosure.site/en/themes/30 . 5 Tokyu Fudosan Holdings , “Climate Change” , at : https://tokyu - fudosan - hd - csr.disclosure.site/en/themes/25 .,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 6 operating company, has a membership in RE100, a global initiative of companies committed to sourcing 100% renewable electricity, and is committed to achieving the Group’s goal by 2050. 6 ▪ The Company developed the Medium - Term Management Plan for 2017 - 2020, which will last until FY2020, and promotes investments in the renewable energy business as part of the “Expansion of the Cyclical Reinvestment Business” strategy, which constitutes one of the Company’s three growth strategies. 7 In the Management Plan, the Company has set KPIs for FY2020, with the aim of promoting ESG management. In addition to the above - mentioned CO 2 reduction targets, the Company has established a goal to reduce waste and water use by 25% from the level of FY2005. The Company also aims to obtain environmental certificatio ns for all of its large - sized office buildings and newly - constructed commercial facilities. 8 Considering Tokyu Fudosan Holdings’ sustainability policies mentioned above and its time - bound quantitative goals, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Company is well positioned to issue green bond s . Sustainalytics also considers that the Company’s use of proceeds wi ll support its efforts to reduce environmental burdens at its own properties and promotes its renewable energy businesses. Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects Sustainalytics recognizes that, while Tokyu Fudosan Holdings' eligible Green Building and Renewable Energy projects have clear environmental benefits, they may potentially pose environmental and social risks. Major risks include water and air pollution, noise and vibration, ecosystem destruct ion, and adverse impacts on local residents and workers ’ health and safety in large - scale projects’ development, construction, and operations. T he Company is working to reduce negative environmental and social risks through the following policies and proce sses: • The eligibility criteria for solar and wind power generation projects defined in the Framework limit the use of proceeds to projects that have received regulatory approval and an equipment accreditation from the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industr y based on the Japan's Feed - in Tariff (FIT) System for Renewable Energy, and have appropriately carried out an environmental impact assessment ( this criteria is only applie d to cases where such assessment is required by laws and regulations ). The equipment accreditation by the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry is available only if the project has a business plan that is developed according to the “Business Planning Guid elines for Solar Power Generation” 9 or “Business Planning Guidelines for Wind Power Generation.” 10 11 These Guidelines require compliance with applicable environmental and social laws (including ordinances) such as the Landscape Act, Nature Conservation Act, Fo rest Act, Act on Conservation of Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, and Noise Regulation Act. The eligibility criteria ensure the confirmation of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the project evaluation/selection process, and at the same time limit financing to projects that have properly completed an environmental impact assessment . The procedure of environmental impact assessment include public inspections, meetings for explanation , and summarization of opinions from local residents, and residents opinions are reflected to business plans and the assessmen t . • Regarding Green Buildings, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings has showed its commit ments within its Framework to work to prevent negative environmental impact related to the development of these buildings through the implementation of environmental impact assessments and the preparation of the Build ing Environment Plan in ac c ordance with laws and regulations. Additionally, based on its supplier policy in 6 Tokyu Land Corporation, “Membership in RE100 Initiative for sourcing 100% renewable energy(Japanese only)”, at : https://www.tokyu - land.co.jp/news/45d003af7a7601cf16268ec60abec175.pdf . 7 Tokyu Fudosan Holdings , “Medium - a nd Long - T erm Management Plan (Value Frontier 2020)” , at : https://www.tokyu - fudo san - hd.co.jp/english/ir/mgtpolicy/plan/ . 8 Tokyu Fudosan Holdings, “Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group's ESG Management”, at: https://tokyu - fudosan - hd - csr.disclosure.site/en/themes/49 . 9 Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, “Business Planning Guidelines for Solar Power Generation (Japanese only) ”, at: https://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/category/saving_and_new/saiene/kaitori/dl/fit_2017/legal/guideline_sun.pdf 10 Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, “Business Planning Guidelines for Wind Power Generation (Japanese only) ”, at: https://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/category/saving_and_new/saiene/kaitori/dl/fit_2017/legal/guideline_wind.pdf 11 Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, “Feed - in Tariff System (Japanese only) ”, at: https://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/category/saving_and_new/saiene/kaitori/fit_nintei.html,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 7 the environmental supply chain and property portfolio management policy, the Company collaborates with stakeholders (design companies, construction companies, customers, etc.) to engage in the following on a supply chain - wide basis: 1) ecosystem survey and conservation during the land development and material procurement phases: 2) efficient use of resources; and 3) reduction of pollutants and waste a nd appropriate treatment. 12 The Company has also established labor standards to prevent forced and child labor and reduce overwork. 13 Considering that Tokyu Fudosan Holdings ensures financed projects’ regulatory compliance as well as implementation of environmental impact assessments and the exclusion of projects with significant outcome s, through the aforementioned policies and processes , Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Company is well positioned to manage and reduce environmental and social risks associated with eligible Green Bond projects. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds The t wo use of proceeds categories described in the Framework are recognized by the GBP and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 as projects that produce positive environmental impacts. Sustainalytics explains how those project categories deliver positive environmental impacts in Japan as follows: Enviro nmental Benefits of Green Buildings CO 2 emissions originat ing from buildings account for about 30% of Japan's total CO 2 emissions. In FY2017, emissions from the business and other sector (specifically, emissions from offices, buildings, commercial facilities, etc.) accounted for 17.4% of Japan's total CO 2 emissions, and emissions in the residential sector accounted for 15.6%. 14 While t he final energy consumption of the industr y and transportation sectors decreased and slightly increased fr om the 1990 level, respectively, emissions from the business and other sector and residential sector related to buildings increas e d by approx. 20%. Accordingly, promotion of energy savings at buildings is imperative for Japan to reduce its CO 2 emissions. 15 In light of these situations, the Japanese government has been working on the strengthening of energy - saving measures for buildings, by, for example, establishing the Act on the Improvement of Energy Consumption Performance of Buildings (Building Energy E fficiency Act) in 2015 , 16 which provides regulatory measures for mandatory compliance with energy efficiency standards for large - scale non - residential buildings. In the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) submitted to the United Nations in line with the Paris Agreement, the Japanese government committed to reducing the country’s total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 26% by FY2030 compared to the FY2013 level. To achieve this, the government has set a goal of reducing CO 2 emissions by 40% in both the business and other sectors and residential sector s . It aims to achieve th is goal by reducing the country’s final energy consumption through such measures as improving newly - constructed buildings’ energy - saving performance, renovating existing b uildings, ensuring thorough energy management, and introducing highly - efficient lighting equipment. 17 T he Framework specifies that the proceeds will be directed towards Green Buildings that have received or will receive the top two levels of nationally - and globally - recognized third - party green building certifications. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that such use of proceeds will provide clear environmental benefits by reduc ing environmental impact (i.e. the consumption of energy, resources, and water) of properties owned by the Company, and contribut ing to Japan’s efforts to reduce CO 2 emissions originat ing from buildings. 12 Tokyu Fudosan Holdings, “Supply Chain (Environment)”, at: https://tokyu - fudosan - hd - csr.disclosure.site/en/themes/29 13 Tokyu Fudosan Holdings, “Labor Standards”, at: https://tokyu - fudosan - hd - csr.disclosure.site/en/themes/36 14 Ministry of the Environment, “Japan’s National Greenhouse Gas Emissions in Fiscal Year 2 017 (Final Figures) (Japanese only) ”, at: https://www.env.go.jp/earth/ondanka/ghg - mrv/emissions/results/JNGI2019_1.pdf 15 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, “Future Energy Conservation Measures for Housing and Buildings (Seco nd Report) (Reference Material) (Japanese only) ”, at: https://www.mlit.go.jp/common/001275971.pdf 16 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, “Overview of the Building Energy Efficiency Act (Detailed Explanator y Session) (Japanese only) ”, at: https://www.mlit.go.jp/common/001178846.pdf 17 UNFCCC, “Japan’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC)” , at: https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/ndcstaging/PublishedDocuments/Japan%20First/20150717_Japan's%20INDC.pdf .,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 8 I mportance of Promotion of Solar and Wind Power Generation In response to the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant accident in 2011, the Japanese government developed a policy to reduce its dependence on nuclear power generation and maximize the use of renewable energy. Based on the “Fourth Basic Energy Pla n,” 18 which was approved by the Cabinet in 2014, the “Long - term Energy Supply and Demand Outlook” 19 was issued in 2015, with a goal of doubling the ratio of renewable energy sources to total power generation from 10% before the earthquake to 22 - 24% by FY20 30. In the “Fifth Basic Energy Plan,” 20 which was approved by the Cabinet in 2018, the government set out a policy of using renewable energy as the country’s main power source by around 2050. In source - specific terms, the Japanese government established go als of installing a solar power generation capacity of 64 million kW and a wind power generation capacity of 10 million kW by 2030. 21 As of March 2018, the solar power generation capacity successfully reached a cumulative 44.5 million kW level, while the w ind power generation capacity remained at a 3.5 million kW level 22 due to locational restrictions, requiring further efforts to triple the capacity in the future. The Japanese government promised to reduce GHG emissions by 26% in line with the Paris Agreem ent, and set out long - term goals of reducing GHG emissions by 80% by 2050 and achieving zero GHG emissions at the earl iest as possible stage of the latter half of the 21st century in the “Long - term Strategy under the Paris Agreement,” which was approved by the Cabinet in June 2019. A reduction of emissions through the expansion of low - carbon renewable energy is expected to ma ke a significant contribution to Japan’s efforts to achieve its climate goals. In the Framework, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings includes solar and wind power generation projects in Japan a mong it’s use of proceeds. Sustainalytics has a positive view of the use of proceeds as contribut ing to the achievement of Japan’s energy and GHG emission reduction goals. Sustainalytics also views that the expansion of low - carbon power sources such as solar and wind power , will reduce GHG emissions originat ing from power generat ion and provide clear environmental benefits. Alignment with/contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. Tokyu Fudosan Holdings’ G reen B ond Framework advances the following SDG goals and targets: Use of Proceeds Cate gory SDG SDG target Green buildings 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource - use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Conclusion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings plans to issue Green Bonds based on its Green Bond Framework and use the proceeds to finance and/or refinance Green Building and Renewable Energy projects. Sustainalytics considers that the use of proceeds defined by the Company in the Fr amework will not only contribute to the achievement of the Company's sustainability goals and Medium - term Management Plan, but will also support the 18 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (2014) , “ Basic Energy Plan ”, at : https://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/en/category/others/basic_plan/pdf/4th_strategic_energy_plan.pdf. 1 9 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, “Long - term Energy Supply and Demand Outlook” (2015), at: http://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2015/pdf/0716_01a.pdf . 20 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, “Basic Energy Plan” (2018), at: https://www.meti.go.jp /english/press/2018/pdf/0703_002c.pdf . 21 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, “Long - term Energy Supply and Demand Outlook Related Reference Materials (Japanese only)” (2015), at: http://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/committee/council/basic_policy_subcommittee /mitoshi/011/pdf/011_07.pdf . 22 Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, “Current State of Renewable Energy in Japan and Overseas and Draft Issues Proposed f or the Current Year by the Procurement Price Calculation Committee (Japanese only)”, at: https://ww w.meti.go.jp/shingikai/santeii/pdf/038_01_00.pdf .,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 9 achievement of the Japanese government’s measures against climate change and related energy policies as wel l as the promotion of the SDGs 7 and 9. Tokyu Fudosan Holdings’ use of proceeds are recognized by the Green Bond Principles and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 as project categor ies with clear environmental benefits. The Company plan s to allocate proceeds to Green Buildings that have received, or will receive, the top two levels of th ird - party green building certification and has committed to allocating the proceeds in less than 18 months . Sustainalytics views that the Company’s eligibility criteria and management of proceeds are aligned with market best practices. Additionally, Sustai nalytics recognizes that the Company's project evaluation and selection process and reporting policies align with market practices. Based on the above considerations, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Framework is credible and transparent, and in alignment with the four requirements of the GBP and Japan's Green Bond Guidelines 2017.,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 10 Appendices Appendix 1: Framework Overview For the purpose of issuing green bonds, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings developed the following framework which addresses the four key core components of GBP: use of proceeds, project evaluation and selection process, management of proceeds, and reporting, in October 2019. The framework belongs to Tokyu Fudosan Holdings , and a summary overview has been provided below. 1. Use of proceeds The proceeds of the green bond will be allocated towards existing and/or new expenditures that meet the following eligibility criteria. 1.1 Eligibility criteria Criterion 1 － Green Buildings The proceeds of the green bond will be allocated toward expenditures (cost s related to land acquisition, planning and development, construction, and refurbishment) or investments on the new and/or existing assets that meet one of the following el igibility criteria. (Eligibility Criteria) 1. Buildings that have received at least one of the following third - party green building certifications or recertifications within 36 months prior to the date of green bond issuance 2. Buildings that are expected to receive at least one of the following third - party green building certifications or recertifications 3. Buildings that have a construction completion date within 36 months prior to the date of green bond issuance and have at least one of the follow ing third - party green building certifications. Tokyu Fudosan will continue to renew such certifications after the initial certification by maintaining and improving environmental performance of the buildings through maintenance and refurbishment of the ass ets. • A or S Rank under the Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency (CASBEE) for Buildings (New Construction, Existing Buildings, and Renovation) or CASBEE for Real Estate • Platinum or Gold Rank under the LEED - BD+C (Building Design and Construction) or LEED - O+M (Building Operations and Maintenance) • 4 or 5 Stars under the Building Energy - efficiency Labeling System (BELS), or • 4 or 5 Stars under the DBJ Green Building Certification Each of the above certification is valid for; CASBEE for Buildings and CASBEE for Real Estate : 5 years after certification LEED - BD+C (Building Design and Construction) : Indefinite term LEED - O+M (Building Operations and Maintenance) : 5 years after certification BELS : Indefin ite term DBJ Green Building Certification : 3 years after certification Criterion 2 － Renewable Energy The proceeds of the green bond will be allocated towards new and existing invest ments for projects that will produce clean energy and contribute to local job creation and economic activit ies through the development and operation of renewable power generation facilities. Specifically, they will be used to cover costs related to purchase facili ties , design, and land development for power generation businesses * contributing to decarbonization, derived from solar and wind power that are invested by Tokyu Fudosan Holdings or Tokyu Fudosan Holdings group , using Tokyu Fudosan Holdings’ fund s . * Permanently available power generation projects from renewable sources specified by "The Act on the Promotion of Use of Non - fossil Energy Sources and Effective Use of Fossil Energy Materials by Energy Supplier ".,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 11 (Eligibility Criteria) 1. The project is locat ed in Japan. 2. The facilit y and project received license and approval from the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry and properly completed an e nvironmental i mpact a ssessment ( limited to projects applicable ). 3. The project address potential negative impacts on the environment and society. Specifically, the risk mitigation measures described hereinbelow should be implemented. 4. The project started operation not more than 36 months before the date of issuance of the g reen b ond , or is planned to start operation after the date of issuance of the g reen b ond. 2. Process for project evaluation and selection 2.1 Application of Eligibility and Exclusionary Criteria in Project Selection Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group recognizes that climate change is an important environmental issue that greatly impacts its business activities. C limate change will not only affect t he businesses of the Group directly but indirectly as well such as the fact that the procurement of supplies required for our businesses may become difficult. Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group is aware of the challenges posed by climate change and is promot ing efficient use of energy and the utilization of renewable energy at its business office s as well as office buildings, commercial facilities and resorts that it owns to mitigate the impacts that its business activities have on climate change. The C ompany set the Eligibility Criteria to select project s which will contribute to its efforts , and t he proceeds of g reen b ond will be allocated to the project which meets the investment e ligibility c riteria. E ligible project s will be respectively selected by members of the Finance Department and Sustainability Promotion Department and the final decision will be made by officer s of both Departments. 2.2 Environmental Objectives Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group is a Corporate Grou p that proposes and creates lifestyles, going beyond the bounds of physical structures. T he Company set s out a sustainability vision and aims to solve social issues through business activities and work with stakeholders to realize a sustainable society and growth. When formulating the 2017 - 2020 Medium - Term Management Plan as stage 2 of its M edium - and L ong - term M anagement P lan “Value Frontier 2020” that started from FY2017, we developed strategies based on the seven materialities that were verified and identified as the social issues on which the Company should place priority. Within this plan, t he Company s et s out three growth strategies: (i)Urban development that proposes new lifestyle, (ii)Expansion of the scope of cyclical reinvestment business, (iii) Reinforcing stock utilization, a s well as promoting strengthening measures to generate synergy effects a mong businesses, and optimizing group management assets and ESG management as efforts to reinforce management foundation. A dditionally, through the environmental policy, we commit to make efforts to harmonize the environment and the economy through business activities and specified five environmental issues: climate change, biodiversity conservation, pollution and resources, water use, and supply chain to address. As part of this effort, Tokyu Land Corporation, the Company’s subsidiary participated i n “RE100”, an international initiative that aims to procure electric power used for business activities entirely through renewable energy. Tokyu Land Corporation intends to realize “RE100” by 2050 by utilizing renewable energy in - house and is work ing on th e realization of a sustainable society through its business. 2.3 Process to Mitigate Environmental and Social Risks Tokyu Fudosan Holdings implements the following three measures to mitigate environmental and social risks. (1) Compliance with Laws and Regulations As part of compliance activities, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings strictly ensures that all officers and employees comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations such as the,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 12 Environmental Impact Assessment and the System of Building Environment Plan and implements compliance check on a regular basis. 1. Environmental Impact Assessment ( limited to wh ere applicable ) 23 The Company follows the procedures for Environmental Impact Assessment set by Prefectural Environmental Impact Assessment regulations which obliges surveys, prediction and evaluation to decrease the possibility of negative environmental impact accompanying large - scale development projects. 2. System of Building Environment Plan 24 The company comply with the submission system of building environment plan etc. set by local authority. For example, in Tokyo Metropolitan Government, according to the System of Building Environment Plan (Green Building Program) establish ed by the Bureau of Environment of Tokyo Metropolitan Government, building that will be newly built or extended and whose total floor area exceeds 5,000 square meters are required to submit their building environment plans. Building that will be newly buil t or extended and whose total floor area exceeds 10,000 square meters are required to submit energy conservation performance standards, energy conservation performance targets (only applied to specific development project) and energy conservation performan ce evaluation documents as well as their plans. In implementing new constructed or expanded building which exceeding above scale, it is necessary to fill out Building Environment Plan documents to clarify its environment - friendly design contents, submit it and receive confirmation from Tokyo Metropolitan Government. The plan is assessed by environment - friendly points such as streamlining of energy use, appropriate utilization of resources, protection of natural environment and mitigation of heat island phen omenon. 3. Solar and W ind P ower G eneration The Company operates business based on the Business Planning Guidelines for Solar Power Generation 25 or the Business Planning Guidelines for W ind P ower G eneration developed under the Revised Act on Special Measures Concerning Procurement of Electricity from Renewable Energy Sources by Electricity Utilities 26 and the f eed - in t ariff s cheme for renewable energy. (2) Promotion S tructure T o achieve a sustainable society and environment, the Company has establish ed the Sustainability Committee and developed a n environmental management structure. (3) Identification of Materialities When formulating the Medium - Term Management Plan, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group identified key social issues that will be important to the Group over the long term and then identified materialities by taking into consideration the opinions of officers and experts with knowledge regarding topics including the environment, lifestyles, and ESG investment. In order to realize sustainable society and increase corporate value, we aim to finding solutions to social issues through our business activities. Additionally, the Group ha s set 2020 KPI targets regarding "Work - Style Reform", "Socia l Needs", "Environment" and "Corporate Governance" and is making efforts to achieve these goals . 3. Management of Proceeds The Company's Finance Department is in charge of allocation and management of the proceeds. The Company ’ s Finance Department has prepared an internal management system to track and manage the amount of proceeds allocated and unallocated . The net proceeds are scheduled to be allocated in less than 18 months after the issuance of the g reen b ond . The Company wi ll disclose its policy of managing proceeds 23 Please see the following for examples of Environmental Impact Assessment R egulations set by prefectures: Bureau of Environment of Tokyo Metropolitan Government, “About Environment Assessments of Tokyo” http://www.kankyo.metro.tokyo.jp/assessment/tokyo/about.html , Hokkaido , “Environmental Impact Assessment R egulation of Hokkaido, Ordinance for Enforcement”, http://www.pref.hokkaido.lg.jp/ks/ksk/assesshp/jore.htm . 24 Please see the following for examples of Submission S ystem of B uilding E nvironment P lan etc. set by local authorit ies : Bureau of Environment of Tokyo Metropolitan Government, “Submission System of Building Environment Plan” http://www7.kankyo.metro.tokyo.jp/building/outline.html#no3 . 25 Agency for Natural Resources and Energy: http://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/category/saving_and_new/saiene/kaitori/dl/fit_2017/legal/guideline_sun.pdf . 26 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry: http://www.meti.go.jp/press/2016/06/20160603009/20160603009.html .,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 13 in a form of cash or cash equivalents while pending allocation to eligible projects in Shelf Registration Supplements or other statutory documents at the date of the issuance. 4. Reporting Tokyu Fudosan Holdings will annually report on the allocation of proceeds to eligible projects , management of proceeds, and positive environmental impact on the Company’s website. The first report will be made public within 1 year from the date of the green bon d issuance. 4 .1 Allocation Reporting The Company will annually disclose the information on allocation of proceeds until proceeds are fully allocated to projects that meet the eligibility criteria and when neces s ary in the event that material change s occur . A mount of allocated proceeds on a project category basis , amount of unallocated proceeds as well as the amount of proceeds allocated to existing expenditures within the total allocated proceeds will be disclosed . 4 .2 Impact Reporting The Company will disclose the following indicators for positive environmental impact until the maturity of the green bond. Green Building s • Name of property or project financed by proceeds of the g reen Bond • Type and level of certification the financed proj ect received • Amount of energy consumption ( GJ ) • Amount of CO 2 reduced ( t - CO 2 ) • Amount of CO 2 emissions reduced per floor area ( kg - CO 2 / ㎡ ) • A mount of water consumption ( ㎥ ) Renewable Energy • Name of projects financed by proceeds of the g reen Bond • Amount of power generated ( kwh ) • Amount of CO 2 reduced ( t - CO 2 ),Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 14 Appendix 2: Overview and Comparison of Green Building Certification Schemes CASBEE Certification 27 LEED 28 BELS 29 DBJ Green Building Certification Program 30 Background CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency) Certification is a green building certification scheme in Japan, which a third party certifies the evaluation of the environmental performance of buildings. The scheme includes, based on types of buildings: CASBEE for Buildings, CASBEE for Real Estate, and CASBEE for Housing. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a US Certification System for residentia l and commercial buildings used worldwide. LEED was developed by the non - profit U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) and covers the design, construction, maintenance and operation of buildings. BELS (Building - Housing Energy - efficiency Labelling System) is a n energy performance label, issued under guidelines established by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport, and Tourism. The BELS system evaluates primary energy consumption to measure conservation performance. DBJ Green Building Certification Pro gramme was launched by Development Bank of Japan in 2011 and is operated together with Japan Real Estate Institute (JREI).The programme is recognized as one of regional standards.The certification is available for office buildings, logistics, residential & retail facilities. Certification levels C (Poor) B - (Slightly Poor) B+ (Good) A (Very Good) S (Excellent) * 4 - grade evaluation for CASBEE for Real Estate excluding C rank Certified Silver Gold Platinum 1 Star 2 Stars 3 Stars 4 Stars 5 Stars 1 Star (Properties with satisfactory environmental & social awareness) 2 Stars (Properties with high environmental & social awareness) 3 Stars (Properties with excellent environmental and social awareness) 4 Stars (Properties with exceptiona lly high environmental & social awareness) 5 Stars (Properties with the best class environmental & social awareness) Areas of Assessment: Environmental Project CASBEE assesses two main factors: inside and outside the building site, which None None Evaluation of DBJ Green Building Certification includes construction 27 Institute for Building Environment and Energy Conservation, “CASBEE certification scheme (Japanese only) ”, at: http://www.ibec.or.jp/CASBEE/certification/certification.html . 28 U.S. Green Building Council, “Green building leadership is LEED ”, at: https://new.usgbc.org/leed . 29 Association for Housing Performance Evaluation & Labeling, “Building - Housing Energy - efficiency Labelling System Building Energy - efficiency Performance Labeling System (Japanese only)“, at: https://www.hyoukakyoukai.or.jp/bels/bels.html . 30 Development Bank of Japan, Japan Real Estate Institute (JREI), “DBJ Green Building”, at: http://igb.jp/en/index.html .,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 15 Management translate into Q (Built Environment Quality) and, respectively, L (Built Environment Load). * The above are not applied to CASBEE for Real Estate specifications, environmental features as well as the following factors: - Disaster - prevention and anticrime measures; - Tenants’ comfort and convenience; - Harmony with the surroundin g environment; - Collaboration with stakeholders (including tenants and investors); and - Environmental Investor Relations activities. Areas of Assessment: Environmental Performance of the Building • Energy Efficiency • Resource efficiency • Local environment • Indoor environment * Areas for assessment of CASBEE for Real Estate are energy/GHG, water, resource, biodiversity, indoor environment • Energy and atmosphere • Sustainable Sites • Location and Transportation • Materials and resources • Water efficiency • Indoor environmental quality • Innovation in Design • Regional Priority Energy efficiency Assessment include three areas with some examples of following subcategories: Eco logy • Energy conservation • Water resources conservation • 3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) • Use of renewable energy Risk management & amenities/diversity • Security & Safety of tenant users • Convenience of tenant users Community & partnership • Landscape • Biodiversity • Relation with the local community • Owner & stakeholder relationship Requirements Score - based performance level CASBEE uses the BEE (Built Environment Efficiency) as its assessment indicator, which is calculated from Q (Built Environment Quality) as the numerator and L (Built Environment Load) as the Prerequisites (independent of level of certification) + Credits with associated poin ts. These points are then added together to obtain the LEED level of certification There are several different rating Score - based performance level. The BELS score is based on the Building Energy Index, obtained by comparing the energy consumption of a building to the standard primary energy consumption of the building type in official guidelines. Score - based performance level Assessment structure composed of the following three pillars: 1. Areas of assessment The features and characteristics of the green building will be classified into three main categories:,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 16 denominator. Q and L are obtained through the classification and r earrangement of the four areas of assessment. Buildings may receive ranks ranging from C (poor) to S (excellent), in order of increasing BEE value. For authorization, a building must receive a report from the CASBEE Certification system, which is after wards assessed by the local government. * CASBEE for Real Estate does not use BEE, additional point system. Certification will not be given, if required item are not met. systems within LEED. Each rating system is designed to apply to a specific sector (e.g. New Construction, Major Renovation, Core and Sh ell Development, Schools - /Retail - /Healthcare New Construction and Major Renovations, Existing Buildings: Operation and Maintenance). A two - star rating is equivalent to meeting existing e nergy conservation standards, with higher star ratings implying greater savings. The score is calculated by an accredited third party. ecology, risk management & amenities/diversity, and community & partnership. Each main area consists of five subcategories and has a full score of 100 poi nts. The entire assessment consists of 58 questions. 2. Comprehensive assessment Among the conventional assessment points, some particular importance is attached to the owner operation of the property, such as, in the risk management part, disaster prev ention & anticrime measures, and in the community & partnership part, local environment - awareness initiatives. 3. Innovation point system An additional point system is adopted to reflect exceptionally innovative initiatives in each subcategory. Such ini tiatives need not fit in the scope of the respective questions. JREI will conduct on the ground review of building performance on the indicators above, and a committee set in JREI will decide the result of certification rank. Performance Display 31 34 31 Institute for Building Environment and Energy Conservation, “Method of Evaluation and Built Environment Efficiency (BEE)”, at : http://www.ibec.or.jp/CASBEE/CASBEE_outline/method.html . 34 Development Bank of Japan, “ DBJ Green Building”, at: http://www.dbj.jp/en/pdf/service/finance/g_building/gb_presentation.pdf .,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 17 32 33 Qualitative considerations CASBEE is continuously developed based on industry - government - academia collaboration under the support of Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. In Japan, many local governments have made CASBEE assessment results mandatory for building p ermits. Compared to similar tools available internationally, CASBEE displays a unique and simple structure. Worldwide recognition and application BELS is aligned with official government standards. The scheme assesses only energy performance, without any broader consideration of holistic environmental factors. In addition to LEED and CASBEE, DBJ Green Buildings Certification Programme is considered as one of the green building standards in Japan. According to its website, as of Mar ch 2019, 695 properties in Japan are certified by the programme. 35 32 U.S. Green Building Council, “Green building leadership is LEED”, at: https://new.usgbc.org/leed 33 Institute for Building Environment and Energy Conservation, “Display example of BELS (Japanese only)”, at : https://www.hyoukakyoukai.or.jp/bels/pdf/170401bels_07.pdf . 35 Development Bank of Japan, Japan Real Estate Institute (JREI), “DBJ Green Building”, at: http://igb.jp/en/index. html .,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 18 Appendix 3 : Green Bond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: November 21, 2019 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an update and add reference to earlier relevant review] Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used o r adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above.,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 19 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible categories for the use of proce eds 1) Green Buildings, and 2) Renewable Energy, are aligned with the GBP. Sustainalytics considers that Tokyu Fudosan ‘s eligible projects will deliver positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals 7 and 9 . Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☒ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at iss uance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): Tokyu Fudosan Holdings allocates Green Bond proceeds to projects that are selected by the Finance Department and the Sustainability Promotion Department according to the eligibility crit eria, and final decision will be made by the officers administering the Departments. Sustainalytics considers that the Company's project evaluation and selection process is in line with market practices. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 20 ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Ev aluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Tokyu Fudosan Holdings’ Finance Department is assigned to tracking the amount of allocated and unallocated proceeds on a semiannual basis, using the Company’s internal management system. Unallocated proceeds will be held in a form of cash or cash equivalents. A dditionally, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings has committed to allocating the proceeds in less than 18 months. Sustainalytics views that the Company's process for management of proceeds is in line with market best practices. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): Tokyu Fudosan Holdings intends to provide a report on its website annually regarding the allocation of proceeds and positive environmental impacts by financed projects. The allocation reporting will include the amount of allocated proceeds on a project category basis, the amount of unallocated proceeds , and the amount allocated to refinancing, while the environmental impact reporting will provide, environmental impact metrics relevant to project category, including names of financed properties or projects, type s and levels of certifications received, and the amount of CO 2 emissions reduced ( t - CO 2 ) . Sustainalytics considers Tokyu Fudosan Holdings’ reporting is aligned with market practices.,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 21 Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☒ Other (please specify): when necessary in the event of material change s Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Names of financed properties or projects, types and levels of certifications obtained, amount of energy consumption, amount of CO 2 emissions reduced per floor area, amount of water consumption , amount of power generated. Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 22 ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): Company website ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s a dviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projec ts intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with inter nal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s interna l tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may ve rify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenar io. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 23 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 2019. All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights to the information contained herein is vested exclusively in Sustainalytics. No part of this deliverable may be reproduced, disseminated, comingled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made available t o third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form or in any manner, be it electronically, mechanically, through photocopies or recordings without the express written consent of Sustainalytics. As the information her ein is based on information made available by the issuer, the information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics does not warrant that the information presented in this deliverable is complete, accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibil ity for errors or omissions and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the substance of the deliverable and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of this deliverable and/or the information provided in it. Any reference to third party names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. Nothing contained in this deliverable shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty on the part of Sustainal ytics, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in companies, selection of projects or make any kind of business transactions. It shall not be construed as an investment advice (as defined in the applicable jurisdiction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor its creditworthiness. The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. This document is translated from the Japanese language. In case of discrepancies between the Japanese language and translated versions, the Japanese language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Green Bond Framework 24 Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm that supports investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with institutional investors who integrate E SG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 countries, the world’s leading issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for second - party opinions on green and sust ainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds Standard Board as a verifier organization, and supports various stakeholders in the development and verification of their frameworks. In 2015, Global Capital awarded Sustainaly tics “Best SRI or Green Bond Research or Ratings Firm” and in 2018 and 2019, named Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider. The firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Climate Bonds Initiative as well as Envi ronmental Finance in 2018, and in 2019 was named the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” by the Climate Bonds Initiative. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special Mention Sustainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institu te for Environmental Finance Japan and the Minister of the Environment Award in the Japan Green Contributor category of the Japan Green Bond Awards in 2019. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com