© Sustainalytics 20 21 Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the UBS Green Funding Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) Green Bond Principles 2021 . This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor y for the use of proceeds , Green Buildings , is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples 2021 . Sustainalytics considers that the eligible category will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically SDG 11 , “ Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable . ” UBS ’s internal Group Risk Control department will asses s and pre - approve the process for asset selection under this Framework in consultation with relevant environmental experts. Projects will be identified and monitored by the respective asset owning business unit. Sustainalytics considers the project selecti on process in line with market practice . UBS ’ s Group Treasury will be in charge of managing proceeds. UBS intends to hold sufficient Eligible Assets at incurrence of any Green Funding. In the case of relevant Eligible Assets exiting the pool of Eligible Assets due to divestments, maturities or other reasons, UBS will seek to replace such assets with other Eligible Assets. Group Treasury will manage any amounts of Green Funding that are not yet allocated to Eligible Assets in accordan ce with UBS's liquidity policy . Sustainalytics considers the management of proceeds practice in line with market practice and ICMA Green Bond P rinciples . UBS will report on the all ocation of proceeds on its website on an annual basis . In addition, UBS is committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics . Sustainalytics views UBS ’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice and ICMA Green Bond P rinciples . Evaluation date June 11 , 2021 Issuer Locatio n Zurich , Switzerland Report Sections Introduction ................................ ........... 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion .......................... 3 Appendices ................................ ............ 8 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Jhankrut Shah (Toronto) Project Manager jhankrut.shah@sustainalytics.com (+1) 647 264 6641 Zhenyi LV (Toronto) Project Support Aoife McCarthy (Amsterdam) Project Support Molly Stern (London) Client Relations susfinance.emea@sustainalytics.com (+44) 20 3880 0193,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 2 Introduction UBS (“UBS”, or the “Bank”) provides financial advice and solutions to institutional and corporate clients worldwide , as well as private clients in Switzerland . UBS is the largest truly global wealth manager, and a leading personal and corporate bank in Switzerland with a large - scale and diversified global asset manager and a focused investment bank . Headquartered in Switzerland, UBS has offices in over 50 regio ns and locations , including all major financial centers and employs over 70 ,000 people around the world. UBS has developed the UBS Green Funding Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it intends to issue green bond s to finance and/ or refinance existing and/ or future Group - wide assets ( “ Eligble Assets ”) that will help in reducing environmental impact of the real estate se c tor in an amount equal to the net proceeds from the green bonds . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in one area: 1. Green Buildings UBS engaged Sustainalytics to review the UBS Green Funding Framework , dated June 2021 , and provide a S econd - P arty O pinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the ICMA Green Bond Principles 2021 . 1 This F ramework will be published in a separate document . 2 Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics ’ Second - Party Opinion Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent 3 opinion on the alignment of the reviewed Framework with the current market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories are credible and impactful. As part of the Second - Party Opinion, Sustainalytics asses sed the following: • The Framework’s alignment with the ICMA Green Bond Principles 2021 , • The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the E ligible A ssets ; and • The alignment of the issuer ’ s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability ri sk management in relation to the “ U se of P roceeds ” (as defined below) . For the “U se of P roceeds ” assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.8 , which is informed by market practice and Sustainalytics ’ expertise as an ESG research provider. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of UBS ’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and the intention to maintain new and ex isting Group - wide E ligible A ssets in an amount equal to the net proceeds of the green bonds , as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework. UBS representatives have confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of UBS to ensure that the information provided is complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant information and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalyt ics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and should be read in conjunction with that Framework. Any update of the present Second - Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement conditions between Sustainalytics and UBS . Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with futur e versions of relevant market standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of new and existing E ligible Assets to be financed and/or refinanced in an amount equal to the net proceeds raised from green bonds and Green funding but does not measure the actual impact. The measurement and reporting of 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Sustainable - finance/2021 - updates/Green - Bond - Principles - June - 2021 - 100621.pdf . 2 U BS intends to make the Framework available on its website. 3 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustai nalytics and ensuring analyst independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of com mercial and research (and en gagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency.,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 3 the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framework is the responsibility of the Framework owner. In addition, the Second - Party Opinion op ines on the potential allocation of an amount equal to the net proceeds from green bonds / Green Funding to new and existing Group - wide eligible assest but does not guarantee the proceeds raised from green bonds / Green Funding will be allocated to eligibl e activities. No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second - Party Opinion shall be considered as being a statement, representation, warrant or argument , either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that UBS has made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second - Party Opinion . Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the UBS Green Funding Framework Sustainalyti cs is of the opinion that the UBS Green Funding Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the ICMA Green Bond Principles . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of UBS ’s G reen B ond F ramework : • Use of Proceeds: - The eligible categor y , Green Buildings , is aligned with those recognized by the ICMA Green Bond Principles and comprises new or existing commercial or residential buildings that have either been certified under one of the three Minergie green building standards , Minergie, Minergie - P or Minergie - A, or other equivalent green building certification. ▪ Sustainalytics notes that the criteria described above can be expected to ensure that buildings selected for financing are within the t op 15% of buildings in terms of energy performance as compared to a local market baseline for Switzerland . T his is in line with the criteria set forth for environmental objectives by the Climate Bonds Initiative . 4 Please refer to Appendix 1 for a summary of certification schemes. ▪ Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the E ligible Assets and the activities will lead to improved environmental performance of the building stock. - For existing assets, UBS has confirmed a look - back period of a maximum of two years from date of a g reen b ond issuance . Sustainalytics consider s this to be aligned with market practice. • Project Evaluation and Selection: - Eligible A ssets under th e UBS Green Funding Framework will be identified, monitored and managed by the asset - owning UBS business unit . The Group Risk Control will assess and UBS's Group Asset and Liability Committee (Group ALCO) approve the process of asset selection. - Quarterly checks will be conducted to ensure alignment of asset elig i bility and availability with the Framework. The Group ALCO holds the responsibility for ensuring the proper assignment of E ligible A ssets to the Green Funding Framework . - Based on the above process , Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with m arket practice and ICMA Green Bond Principles . • Management of Proceeds: - UBS’s Group Treasury will be in charge of management of proceeds including the amount of proceeds that cannot yet be allocated to Eligible Assets according to UBS's liquidity policy . - UBS has communicated to Sustainalytics that these investments are in cash, equivalents, high - quality liquid assets and /or other money market instruments. - UBS intends to maintain a portfolio balance of Eligible Assets that is equal to or higher than the funds raised through issuances under this Framework. - Based on the above management practices, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with the market practice and ICMA Green Bond Principles . • Reporting: 4 Climate Bonds Initiative, Low Carbon Buildings Approved Proxies for “top 15%” , published on 13 Apr 2021 at: https://www.climatebonds.net/files/files/2021 - 04 - 20_S witzerland_Minergie - standard_%28For - website%29.pdf,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 4 - UBS intends to publish a Green Funding Investor Report that will summarize the amount of proceeds allocated , the share or amount of new financing and refinancing, as well as proceeds that are not yet allocated to Eligible Assets . This report will be published on the Bank’s Inves tor Relations webpage on an annual basis . - The Bank also intends on publishing an annual Impact Report which will include relevant environmental results of the project such as CO 2 emissio n, e nergy usage per sqm per annum and selection of project examples , where feasible . - Based on commitment to produce an allocation and impact reporting on an annual basis , Sustainalytics conside rs this process to be in line with market practice and ICMA Green Bond Principles . Alignment wi th Green Bond Principles 20 21 Sustainalytics has determined that the UBS Green Funding Framework aligns to the four core components of the ICMA Green Bond Principles . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 2 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Strategy and Performance of UBS Contribution of framework to UBS ’s sustainability performance and strategy Sustainalytics is of the opinion that UBS demonstrates a commitment to sustainability through providing sustainable financ ial services and helping the economy transition to a low carbon status . UBS’s climate strategy has four areas of emphas is: 1) protecting the bank assets by limiting carbon - related risk, 2) supporting clients in managing climate - related risks and opportunities, 3) facilitating private and institutional capital to support climate change mitigation and adaptation, 4) reducing climate impact from own operation. UBS’s sustainability strategy is a ligned with the Bank’s commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals and Paris Agreement as well as the Principles for Responsible Banking , to which UBS is a signatory . Some of UBS’s su s tainability goals and performances are as below: 5 • UBS has establish ed its sustainability ambitions and goals with clear targets. The Bank is aiming to raise additional USD 70 billion of impact investment or investment where sustainability is an explicit part of the investment guidelines by 20 25 . Examples of such sustainable investments are private equity funds that focus on environmental and social inclusive growth, including renewable energy, waste management, and financial inclusion. • In addition to its financial targets, the Bank is targeting t o achieve net - zero scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emission by 20 25 . • UBS has reduced its carbon - related assets exposure to 1.9% of its banking balance sheet (equivalent to USD 5.4 billion) and manages USD 160.8 billion in climate - related sustainable investmen ts at the end of 2020 . In 2020, assets managed under the Climate Aware strategy increased to USD 15.3 billion, which is five times compared to 2019 . The Bank has also directed USD 6.9 billion in client assets to SDG - related impact investments over the last five years . • The Bank sources 100% of its electricity consumption from renewable sources and has reduced its scope 1 and 2 emissions by 79% compared with 2004 level s . In addition, paper and water consumption are reduced by 35 % per FTE and 27 % in total . in 2020 compar ed with 20 1 6. • UBS has adopted both local and internationally recognized green - building standards, i.e., LEED , to manage its real estate’s environmental aspects, including green leas ing . In 2020, UBS has obtained geen building certification , such as the Minergie - P - Eco and LEED, for two properties in Switzerland and Singapore. • UBS has set a goal of raising USD 1 billion in donations to reach 2 6 million beneficiaries through community investments and client philanthropy by 20 25 . Most recently, in April 2021, UBS committed to tougher environmental standards and to developing a detailed road map for achieving net ze ro greenhouse gas emissions across all its operations by 2050 . 5 UBS, Sustainability Report, 2020, available at: https://www.ubs.com/global/en/investor - relations/_jcr_content/mainpar/toplevelgrid_9700 678/col2/teaser_1436353222/linklist/link_1276871012.0612142036.file/bGluay9wYXRoPS9jb250ZW 50L2RhbS91YnMvZ2xvYmFsL3Vicy1zb2NpZXR5LzIwMjAvdWJzLXN1c3RhaW5hYmlsaXR5LXJlcG9ydC0yMDIwLnBkZg==/ubs - sustainability - report - 2020.pdf,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 5 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the UBS Green Funding Framework is aligned with the bank ’s overall sustainability strategy and initiatives and will further the Bank ’s action on its key environmental priorities. Well - positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While Sustainalytics recognizes that an amount equal to the net proceeds from G reen F unding issued under the Framework will be maintain ed in new and existing Group - wide E ligible Assets that are expected to have positive environmental impact, Sustainalytics is aware that such Eligible Assets could also lead to negative environmental and social outcomes . Some key environmental and social ri sks associated with the eligible projects could include occupational health and safety at green building development sites , stakeholder engagement , land use, emissions, effluents, and waste generated in construction . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that UBS is able to manage and/or mitigate potential risks through implementation of the following: 6 • Environmental and social risks (ESR) are managed by the Group Executive Board . The Group Executive Board also defines UB S’s ESR framework which identif ies and manage s environmental and social impacts and risks. This ESR framework includes key stakeholder groups including employees, clients and vendors and associated environmental or social risks that assets or clients are e xposed to . The Group Chief Risk Officer holds the responsibility of developing and implementing principles and independent control of ESR framework. • The Bank has a set of “ UBS ESR S tandard s ” which includes a description of potential controversial activitie s related to environmental and social risk and defines the areas that the Bank will not engage or only engage with stringent controls. The Bank ’s standard risk and compliance processes include client onboarding, ongoing Know You Client reviews, transaction due diligence, supply chain management and portfolio reviews. • UBS is certified with ISO 5000 1 the e nergy m anagement s ystem stan dard , ISO 14064 the quantification and reporting of g reen house gases emissions standard , as well as ISO 14001 , the e nvironmental m anagement s ystem standard . The Bank is also a UN Global Compact signatory since 2000 and a member of the Climate Action 100+ since 2017. • The Group’s Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy 7 outlines UBS’s commitment to monitoring, m anaging and reducing any negative impact the Bank has on the environment and human rights, including managing social and environmental risks that clients and assets are exposed to. Based on these policies, standards and assessments, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that UBS has implemented adequate measures and is well - positioned to manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible categories. 6 UBS, Sustainability Report, 2020, available at: https://www.ubs.com/global/en/investor - relations/_jcr_content/mainpar/toplevelgrid_9700678/col2/teaser_1436353222/linklist/link_1276871012.06 12142036.file/bGluay9wYXRoPS9jb250ZW 50L2RhbS91YnMvZ2xvYmFsL3Vicy1zb2NpZXR5LzIwMjAvdWJzLXN1c3RhaW5hYmlsaXR5LXJlcG9ydC0yMDIwLnBkZg==/ubs - sustainability - report - 2020.pdf 7 UBS, “Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS”,(2020), at: Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS | UBS Global,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 6 Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds The “U se of P roceeds ” categor y is aligned with those recognized by the ICMA Green Bond Principles . Sustainalytics has focused on the impact of these investments in the local context. Importance of low carbon buildings S witzerland The EU building sector accounts for 40% of total energy consumption and 36% of CO 2 emissions in the EU . 8 Approximately 3 5 % of the EU building stock is over 50 years old and approximately 75% is considered energy inefficient. 9 In ord er for the EU to meet its net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions target by 2050 , 10 more investment into renovation and energy efficiency improvements within the building sector is required . In Switzerland, the building sector account for 40% of total ene rgy consumed and 25% of all CO 2 emissions. 11 T he Swiss Government has set climate target s to reduce its net carbon emissions to zero by 2050 . 11 Currently only 1% of Swiss houses are renovate d, 12 and this rate will need to be doubled to a chieve the goals set out by the government. Swiss buildings have traditionally rel ied on oil for heating and buildings are scarcely insulated, contributing to heat loss. 13 12 The Swiss Government introduced the Building Programme t o reduce energy consumption in the building industry through subsidizing the cost of energy - saving renovations of buildings, which is pa rtially financed by revenue from the CO 2 levy on fuels. 14 Through the Building Programme the Swiss Government aims to reduce energy consumption considerably within the Swiss building industry yet more efforts are required to speed up the rate of renovatio n to improve energy efficiency and for Switzerland to meet its climate targets. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that UBS investments into certified green buildings will contribute to national climate targ ets within Switzerland. Align ment with/ contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. The funding raised under the UBS Green Funding Framework advances the following SDG s and target s : Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Green Buildings 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 11.3 Ensure inclusive and sustainable urbanization, planning and management. Conclusion UBS has developed the UBS Green Funding Framework under which it will issue f unding instruments such as bonds, derivatives, deposits or similar financial products and UBS and its subsidiaries intend to finance and/or refinance new and existing E ligible A ssets in an amount equal to the net proceeds . Sustainalytics considers that the new and existing G roup - wide projects maintained in relation to the proceeds from the funding instruments mentioned above are expected to provide positive environmental and social impact. The UBS Framework outlines a process by which proceeds will be tracked, allocated, and managed, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocation and impact of the new and existing Group - wide projects / E ligible A ssets . Furthermore, Sustainalytics believes that UBS Green Funding Framework is aligned with the overall sustainability strategy of the company and that the “U se of P roceeds ” categories will contribute to the advancement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals 11. Additionally, Sustainalytics is of 8 European Commission, “Energy performance of buildings directive”, at: https://ec.europa.eu/energy/en/topics/energyefficiency/energy - performance - of - buildings 9 ibid 10 European Commission, “2050 long - term strategy”, at: https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/strategies/2050_en 11 Swiss Government, “Federal Council aims for a climate - neutral Switzerland by 2050”, (2019), at: Federal Council aims for a climate - neutral Switzerland by 2050 (admin.ch) 12 Swiss National Science Foundation, “Building renovation needs to be speeded up – synthesis on the main topic of Build ings and Settlements”, (2019), at: Building renovation needs to be speeded up – synthesis on the main topic of "Buildings and Settlements" (nfp70.ch) 13 SWI Swiss Info, “Why most Swiss building are environmentally inefficient”, (2020), at: Why most Swiss buildings are environmentally inefficient - SWI swissinfo.ch 14 Swiss Federal Office of Energy, “Measures for increasing energy efficiency”, (2020), at: Measures for increasing energy efficiency (admin.ch),Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 7 the opinion that UBS has adequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible projects. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that UBS is well - positioned to issue green funding and that UBS Green Funding Framewor k is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles ( 2021 ) .,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 8 Appe ndi ces Appendix 1: Overview and Assessment of Green Building Certification Schemes Minergie Background Minergie is a Swiss building standard for new and modernized buildings. The brand is shared by industry, the cantons and the federal government and is protected against misuse. Certification levels Minergie Minergie - P Minergie - A MQS - Construction MQS - ECO Areas of Assessment: Environmental Performance of the Building • Energy source • Energy demand • Energy monitoring • Heating/Cooling • Airtightness • E - Mobility Requirements The applicant submits the application to the responsible Minergie certification body, in paper form and via the Minergie Online Platform (MOP) The Minergie certification body reviews the application and can ask questions or additional claims. Once all requirements have been met, the provisional certificate will be issued. It serves for planning security and can be used for advertising purposes: The project may now be called a Minergie building. When the building is being created. If desired, the Minergie relevant aspects can be checked by MQS Bau. Once the building has been properly commissioned, the applican ts will submit the documents for the construction confirmation. They therefore report to the certification body the completion of the construction measures as well as their planning - compliant realization. The experts assume responsibility. The certification body checks the submitted documents and carries out random checks on every fifth project, possibly even during the construction phase. Subsequently, the definitive certificate is handed out. A definitive certificate with label number guarante es a Minergie house. A subsequent optimization of the building services with MQS operation complements the Minergie quality control in an ideal way. Performance display,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 9 Append ix 2 : Green B ond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: UBS Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : UBS Green Funding Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: May 27 , 2021 Publication date of review publication: Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBP: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) :,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 10 The eligible category for the use of proceeds Green Buildings is aligned with those recognized by the ICMA Green Bond Principles 2021 . Sustainalytics considers that the eligible category will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustai nable Development Goals, specifically SDG 11. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☐ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☒ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☒ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☒ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBP ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBP: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): UBS internal Group Risk Control department will assess and approve the process for asset selection under this Framework . Projects will be identified and monitored by the respective asset owning business unit. Sustainalytics considers the project selection process in line with market practice. Evaluation and selection ☐ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☐ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☐ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☒ In - house assessment,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 11 ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : UBS’s Group Treasury will be in charge of managing proceeds. Unallocated proceeds will be managed in accordance with UBS’s liquidity p olicy. UBS intends to fully allocate Eligible Assets on the day of financing. Sustainalytics considers the management of proceeds practice in line with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☐ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☐ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for proceeds that are not yet allocated to Eligible Assets ☒ Other (please specify) : UBS intends to fully allocate the proceeds on the day of financing, proceeds that are not yet allocated to Eligible Assets will be in cash, equivalents, high - quality liquid assets and other money market instruments . Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): UBS intends to report on allocation of proceeds on it’s website on an annual basis until full allocation. In addition, UBS is committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics. Sustainalytics views UBS’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Use of proceeds reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 12 ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☒ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Frequency ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): Information will be published on the corporate Investor Relations webpage. ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 13 Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second - Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second - Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second - Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of proje cts intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with inte rnal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s intern al tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may v erify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scena rio. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 14 Disclaimer Copyright ©202 1 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalytics, or provided that appropriate c itation and acknowledgement is ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project; (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice or a prospectus; (3) cannot be interpret ed as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) ha ve not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up - to - dateness or fitness for a particular purp ose. The information and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the information, data or opinions contained here in, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list o f our third - party data providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal - disclaimers . The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion UBS Green Funding Framework 15 About Sustain alytics , a Morningstar Company Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. The firm works wit h hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their investment processes. The world’s foremost issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institut ions to governments, also rely on Sustainalytics for credible second - party opinions on green, social and sustainable bond frameworks. In 2020, Climate Bonds Initiative named Sustainalytics the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” for the third consecutive year. The firm was also recognized by Environmental Finance as the “Largest External Reviewer” in 2020 for the second consecutive year. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com .