1 / 3 https://www.jcr.co.jp/en/ 20-I-0055 November 2, 2020 Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) announces the following credit ratings. Vena Energy Holdings Ltd (security code: -) <Affirmation> Foreign Currency Long-term Issuer Rating: A- Outlook: Stable Vena Energy Capital Pte. Ltd. (security code: -) <Affirmation> Foreign Currency Long-term Issuer Rating: A- Outlook: Stable EMTN Program: A- Rationale (1) Vena Energy, headquartered in Singapore, is one of the leading renewable energy independent power producers (“IPPs”) in the Asia-Pacific region. Vena Energy develops, manages and operates a total of 84 solar and wind power generation projects and battery energy storage system assets in seven countries. Vena Energy has total combined assets of USD 5.6 billion as of the end of June 2020. Vena Energy's corporate structure comprises three companies (“Guarantors”) and their respective subsidiaries: Vena Energy Holdings Ltd (“Vena Energy Holdings”), Vena Energy (Taiwan) Holdings Ltd, and Zenith Japan Holdings Ltd. Vena Energy Capital Pte. Ltd. (“Vena Energy Capital”) is a special purpose vehicle which was established for the purpose of the bond issuance. It set up an Euro Medium-Term Note Programme (“Programme”) with the Guarantors in November 2019 and issued a five-year green bond worth USD 325 million under the Programme in February 2020. The principal and interest payments on the bond issued under the Programme are guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the Guarantors. The issuer ratings on Vena Energy Holdings and Vena Energy Capital as well as the rating on the Programme reflect the creditworthiness of the Guarantors. (2) The creditworthiness of the Guarantors is supported by (i) Vena Energy’s solid business base, (ii) its strong development and operation capabilities, (iii) stable dividend income it receives from its project subsidiaries (“OpCos”) under long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) backed by FITs and (iv) the stability of cash flows stemming from its highly diversified portfolio. Given the effect of the diversified portfolio in containing the fluctuation of cash flows, JCR holds that the cash flows can be kept sufficient enough to assure debt payments by the Guarantors. On the other hand, the creditworthiness of the Guarantors is constrained by the dependence of Vena Energy’s medium-term business outlook on the progress of development assets. Even amid the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been no noticeable curtailment on output. The OpCos are steadily expanding their electricity sales and keep paying dividends to the Guarantors without any significant problem. Based on the above, JCR has affirmed the A- rating on Vena Energy Holdings and Vena Energy Capital with a Stable outlook since the creditworthiness of the Guarantors can be assessed equivalent to A-. It has also affirmed the A- rating on the Programme set up by Vena Energy Capital. (3) The main sponsor of Vena Energy is Global Infrastructure Partners, one of the world's leading independent infrastructure investment funds. Since its establishment in 2012, Vena Energy has been actively participating in solar and wind power generation projects in Asia-Pacific countries. Its portfolio at the end of June 2020 consisted of 84 power plants - 58 in operation, 12 in construction and 14 which were shovel-ready. The combined generation capacity has reached 2,852MW. These indicate that Vena Energy has good track records of developing, managing and operating generation plants. In the first half of FY2020, its generation volume totaled 1,436 GWh, up 16.2% year-on-year, posting a steady growth despite the COVID-19 pandemic. By energy source, the total generation volume broke down into 62% for solar power and 38% for wind power. The plants are well dispersed in seven countries: Japan, India, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan and Australia. The PPAs oblige the off-takers to take in all the generation volume. The remaining,2 / 3 https://www.jcr.co.jp/en/ periods of the PPAs for the plants in operation are approximately 19 years on an output-weighted average basis, assuring the stability of cash flows over a long period. In addition, based upon cash flow analysis taking into account the correlations among irradiation and wind volume of each power plant, it is expected that cash flow will stabilize due to diversification effects of its portfolio. Due to COVID-19, some projects have experienced delays in construction work and the commencement of the work, but the delay remains around three months, and JCR holds that the impact on cash flow is expected to be limited. (4) In the first half of FY2020, Vena Energy’s total sales grew 6.1% year-on-year to USD 182 million and EBITDA increased 9.2% to USD 138 million, a solid growth despite the spread of COVID-19. The Guarantors’ cash flows are expected to fluctuate for the time being due partly to the investment burdens at the project development stage. In the medium to long term, however, JCR holds that Vena Energy will be able to secure enough leeway to pay the principal and interest on its debt even under stress cases. The bond issuance under the EMTN Programme has extended the maturity and fixed the interest payments of the majority of the debt principal for the next five years. Moreover, Vena Energy has secured ample cash and deposits, keeping its liquidity position generally favorable. Atsushi Masuda, Shinichi Endo Rating Issuer: Vena Energy Holdings Ltd < Affirmation > Foreign Currency Long - t erm Issu er Rating: A - Outlook : Stable Issuer: Vena Energy Capital Pte. Ltd. < Affirmation > Foreign Currency Long - t erm Issu er Rating: A - Outlook : Stable Program Name: Guaranteed Euro Medium Term Note Programme Maximum Outstanding: USD 1 billion or its equivalent in other currencies Date of Programme Established: November 26, 2019 Status: Unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations ranking pari passu with all other present and future unsecured obligations Credit Enhancement: Guaranteed by Vena Energy Holdings Ltd, Vena Energy (Taiwan) Holdings Ltd and Zenith Japan Holdings Ltd (as trustee of Zenith Japan Holdings Trust) Covenants: Negative Pledge and Cross Default Clauses Rating: A- Rating Assignment Date: October 28, 2020 The criteria used for identifying matters which serve as assumptions for the assessment of the credit status, and the criteria used for setting of grades indicating the results of the assessments of the credit status are published as "Types of Credit Ratings and Definitions of Rating Symbols" (January 6, 2014) in Information about JCR Ratings on JCR's website (https://www.jcr.co.jp/en/). Outline of methodology for determination of the credit rating is shown as "JCR's Rating Methodology" (November 7, 2014), "Project Finance" (August 28, 2012), "Infrastructure Funds" (January 25, 2018) and "Synthetic CDOs" (September 24, 2019) in Information about JCR Ratings on JCR's website (https://www.jcr.co.jp/en/). Glossary: A program rating is assigned to evaluate the creditworthiness of a program. The credit standing of an individual note issued under the program may be regarded as the same as that of the rated program. However, JCR does not consider the credit standing of the individual note as the same as that of the program, in the cases where the principal and interest payments of the individual note rely on the credit standing of a third party rather than the issuer of the program and notes (e.g. credit linked notes and exchangeable notes). JCR usually does not assign a rating to the individual note issued under the program, unless the issuer solicits a rating. Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. Jiji Press Building, 5-15-8 Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0061, Japan Tel. +81 3 3544 7013, Fax. +81 3 3544 7026 Information herein has been obtained by JCR from the issuers and other sources believed to be accurate and reliable. However, because of the possibility of human or mechanical error as well as other factors, JCR makes no representation or warranty, express or implied, as to accuracy, results, adequacy, timeliness, completeness or merchantability, or fitness for any particular purpose, with respect to any such information, and is not responsible for any errors or omissions, or for results obtained from the use of such information. Under no circumstances will JCR be liable for any special, indirect, incidental or consequential damages of any kind caused by the use of any such information, including but not limited to, lost opportunity or lost money, whether in contract, tort, strict liability or otherwise, and whether such damages are foreseeable or unforeseeable. JCR's ratings and credit assessments are statements of JCR's current and comprehensive opinion regarding redemption possibility, etc. of financial obligations assumed by the issuers or financial products, and not statements of opinion regarding any risk other than credit risk, such as market liquidity risk or price fluctuation risk. JCR's ratings and credit assessments are statements of opinion, and not statements of fact as to credit risk decisions or recommendations regarding decisions to purchase, sell or hold any securities such as individual bonds or commercial paper. The ratings and credit assessments may be changed, suspended or withdrawn as a result of changes in or unavailability of information as well as other factors. JCR receives a rating fee paid by issuers for conducting rating services in principle. JCR retains all rights pertaining to this document, including JCR's rating data. Any reproduction, adaptation, alteration, etc. of this document, including such rating data, is prohibited, whether or not wholly or partly, without prior consent of JCR. JCR is registered as a "Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization" with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following four classes. (1) Financial institutions, brokers and dealers, (2) Insurance Companies, (3) Corporate Issuers, (4) Issuers of government securities, municipal securities and foreign government securities. JCR publishes its press releases regarding the rating actions both in Japanese and in English on the same day. In case that it takes time to translate rating rationale, JCR may publicize the summary version, which will be replaced by the full translated version within three business days. (Regarding Structured Finance products, JCR only publicize the summary version in English.) Copyright © Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. All rights reserved.,1 / 5 I n f o r m at i o n D i s c l o s u r e F o r m Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. Disclosure Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of Rule 17g-7 Issuer: Vena Energy Holdings Ltd Vena Energy Capital Pte. Ltd. Rating Publication Date: November 2, 2020 1 The Symbol, Number, or Score in the Rating Scale used to Denote Credit Rating Categories and Notches and, the Identity of the Obligor or the Identity and a Description of the Security or Money Market Instrument as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of Rule 17g-7 Please see the news release. 2 The version of the procedure or methodology used to determine the credit rating; as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of Rule 17g-7 Please see the news release. 3 The Main Assumptions and Principles used in Constructing the Procedures and Methodologies used to Determine the Credit Rating as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of Rule 17g-7 The credit rating methodology assumes, in principle, to be applied to assess the likelihood of a given debt payment in light of its issuer’s condition and market environment, etc. in the relevant future. There is certain limitation, however, in the time horizon that the rating foresees The credit rating methodology assumes, in principle, that the factors posted in the below are particularly important for such likelihood to be determined, and that the rating determination is made by evaluating each of them not only quantitatively but also employing qualitative analyses. A) Portfolios The likelihood of a given debt payment is highly conditional to its issuer’s portfolios - how they can be maintained/ enhanced into the future and thereby secure earnings and cash flows in adequacy and in a sustainable way. B) Financial Grounds and Asset Quality The likelihood of debt payment is highly dependent on the degree of the issuer’s indebtedness and loss absorption capacity in terms of equity capital. Also notable is that the issuer might see a significant loss of financial grounds as a result of changes in value of the assets under its possession. C) Liquidity Positions The likelihood of debt payment is highly dependent on the adequacy of the issuer’s cash and other sources of repayment (liquidity positions) including certainty of refinancing.,2 / 5 D) Related Parties’ Status and Stance of Support/ Assistance for the Issuer The likelihood of debt payment is affected one way or the other by the issuer’s related parties such as sponsor, asset manager, guarantor, and the government of the issuer’s business domicile, etc. - by their own conditions and/ or position of support/ assistance for the issuer. E) Order of Seniority in Debt Payment The likelihood of debt payment can be different between given debts of the same issuer. The likelihood of debt payment for an individual debt is dependent on the issuer’s discretion, and/ or its rank relative to other debts of the same issuer in the order of seniority in principal/ interest payment which is determined by design as financial product or by laws, etc. 4 The Potential Limitations of the Credit Rating as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(D) of Rule 17g-7 The credit rating herewith presented by JCR is its summary opinion with regard to the likelihood of given debt payment and hence not necessarily a perfect representation of such likelihood. The credit rating is not intended to estimate the probability of default or the loss on given default, either. The objective of the credit rating herewith presented does not include any concerns other than the likelihood of debt payment, such as risks of price changes, market liquidity, etc. The credit rating herewith presented is necessary to be reviewed along with possible changes of the issuer of rated objects in its business performance and/ or circumstances which include regulatory environment, and hence subject to possible alteration. 5 Information on the Uncertainty of the Credit Rating as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(E) of Rule 17g-7 The information used for the determination of credit rating as herewith presented is obtained by JCR from the issuer of rated objects and other sources that JCR trusts in terms of accuracy and reliability but possibly contains errors due to human, non-human or other causes. Consequently, the credit rating determined on the grounds of such information does not constitute, explicitly or implicitly, any representation or warrant of JCR on the information itself or any consequences of its use in terms of accuracy, relevance, timeliness, wholeness, market value, or usefulness for any specific purposes. 6 Use of Due Diligence Services of a Third Party in Taking the Rating Action as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(F) of Rule 17g-7 There is no use of any third-party due diligence service in the determination of the credit rating herewith presented. 7 Use of Servicer or Remittance Reports to Conduct Surveillance of the Credit Rating Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(G) of Rule 17g-7 There is no use of any servicer or remittance report to conduct surveillance of the credit rating herewith presented. 8 The Types of Data Relied Upon for the Purpose of Determining the Credit Rating as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(H) of Rule17g-7,3 / 5 The information posted in the below, which includes data, is used for the determination of the credit rating herewith presented. A) Audited financial statements presented by the rating stakeholders B) Explanations and documents regarding asset portfolio, contracts, business performance, management plans, etc. presented by the rating stakeholders 9 Overall assessment of the Quality of Information Available and Considered in Determining the Credit Rating as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(l) of Rule 17g-7 JCR holds its basic policies for securing the quality of information as a base of due diligence for the determination of credit ratings. The information used as a base for the determination of credit rating herewith presented satisfies such policies, which include the audit by an independent auditor, the publication by the issuer or some independent media or, otherwise, JCR analyst’s scrutiny, etc. JCR sees no particular weakness in the quality of information used for the determination of the credit rating herewith presented as compared to the information used in other cases of the credit rating for comparable issuers or ratable objects. 10 Information Relating to Conflicts of Interest as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(J) of Rule 17g-7 JCR receives payment of compensation for the determination of the credit rating herewith presented from either one of those parties who are issuer, underwriter, depositor or sponsor. JCR received in the last fiscal year in the past payment of compensation from the same party for any kind of JCR’s service other than the determination of credit rating, such as one in the ancillary business. 11 Explanation or Measure of the Potential Volatility of the Credit Rating as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(K) of Rule 17g-7 A) Portfolios The credit rating is subject to alteration if there is improvement or deterioration of quality, competitive strength and diversification in the issuer’s portfolios, since its revenue, etc. may improve or deteriorate by the change in its investment strategies, climate change, competitive situation, or a technological innovation. The resultant alteration of the credit rating is usually by a notch, with possibility of a few notches if and when the change in the portfolios is large. B) Financial Grounds and Asset Quality The credit rating is subject to alteration if the issuer increases/ decreases its debt/ capital or vice versa and thereby makes its individual debt payment liability less or more bearable and its loss absorption capacity into the future decreased or increased. Also, the changes in the quality of asset under the issuer’s holding may affect the credit rating, since such changes could raise or lower the likelihood of future loss of the issuer’s financial grounds. The resultant alteration of the credit rating is usually by a notch, with possibility of a few notches if and when the change in the financial grounds and/ or asset quality is large. C) Liquidity Positions The credit rating is subject to alteration if there is a change in the issuer’s financial management policy or in the relations with fund procurement sources and the change thereby makes its liquidity positions improve or deteriorate. The resultant alteration of the credit rating is usually by a notch, with possibility of a few notches if and when the change is large. D) Related Parties’ Status and Stance of Support/ Assistance for the Issuer The credit rating is subject to alteration if there is a change in the issuer’s sponsor or asset manager, guarantor or other provider of credit enhancement, or the government of the issuer’s business domicile,,4 / 5 or other related parties’ own conditions and/ or position of support/ assistance for the issuer, and the change thereby makes its portfolios, financial grounds and/ or liquidity positions improve or deteriorate, and/ or making the effectiveness of guarantee and other credit enhancement improve or deteriorate. The resultant alteration of the credit rating is usually a notch, with possibility of a few notches if and when the change is large. E) Order of Seniority in Debt Payment and Non-Payment Forgiven by Contract The credit rating is subject to alteration if there is a change in the rated debt’s status in the order of seniority relative to other debts caused by the improvement/ deterioration of the issuer’s financial condition. The resultant alteration of the credit rating is usually a notch, with possibility of a few notches if and when the change is large. Also, in case of the financial products for which non-payment of interest/ principal is contractually permissible, the credit rating is subject to alteration if and when the likelihood of such non-payment is projected to increase or decrease. The resultant alteration of the credit rating could be by a notch but often as much as a few notches. F) Rise and Fall in General Economy and Markets The credit rating is subject to alteration if there is a rise/ fall in the general economy and/ or the markets, of e.g. interest rates, inducing the issuer’s revenues/ expenses to increase/ decrease and vice versa, etc. The resultant alteration of the credit rating is usually by a notch, with possibility of a few notches if and when the change is exceptionally large. G) Various Events The credit rating is subject to alteration on occurrence of various events, such as change in the issuer’s sponsor or asset manager, M&A and other organizational change, accident, violation of the law, litigation, legal/ regulatory change, natural disaster, etc., which are unforeseeable at the time when the credit rating is determined, causing a significant change on the issuer’s business bases, financial grounds, etc. The resultant alteration of the credit rating could be by a notch but more often than not as much as a few notches. 12 Information on the Content of the Credit Rating, Including the Historical Performance of the Credit Rating and the Expected Probability of Default and the Expected Loss in the Event of Default as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(L) of Rule 17g-7 Historical records of the credit rating herewith presented are posted in the end of this paper. The credit rating herewith presented by JCR is its summary opinion with regard to the likelihood of given debt payment and hence not necessarily a perfect representation of such likelihood. The credit rating is not intended to estimate the probability of default or the loss on given default, either. Facts of the probability of default are posted as Form NRSRO Exhibit 1 on the JCR website under the URL: https://www.jcr.co.jp/en/service/company/regu/nrsro/ 13 Information on the Sensitivity of the Credit Rating to Assumptions Made as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(M) of Rule 17g-7 A) Portfolios The credit rating herewith presented could be changed if and when the assumptions made at the time of its determination turn out to be inaccurate with regard to the issuer’s portfolios and powers of earning or cash flow generation, etc. The resultant change of the credit rating is most likely by a notch, as JCR speculates, but possibly as much as a few notches if the development is rapid in improvement or deterioration of quality, competitive strength and diversification in the issuer’s portfolios on some drastic change in the market environments, etc. B) Financial Grounds and Asset Quality The credit rating herewith presented could be changed if and when the assumptions made at the time of its determination turn out to be inaccurate with regard to the issuer’s financial grounds and asset quality. The resultant change of the credit rating is most likely by a notch, as JCR speculates, but,5 / 5 possibly as much as a few notches if the development is rapid in improvement or deterioration of the issuer’s financial grounds and/ or asset quality on some drastic change in its portfolios. C) Liquidity Risks The credit rating herewith presented could be changed if and when the assumptions made at the time of its determination turn out to be inaccurate with regard to the issuer’s liquidity positions including certainty of refinancing. The resultant change of the credit rating is most likely by a notch, as JCR speculates, but possibly as much as a few notches if the development is rapid in improvement or deterioration of the issuer’s liquidity positions on some drastic change in its financial management policy or relations with fund procurement sources, etc. D) Related Parties’ Status and Stance of Support/ Assistance for the Issuer The credit rating herewith presented could be changed if and when the assumptions made at the time of its determination turn out to be inaccurate with regard to the issuer’s sponsor or asset manager, guarantor or other providers of credit enhancement, the government of the issuer’s business domicile or other related parties’ status and stance of support/ assistance for the issuer. The resultant change of the credit rating is most likely by a notch, as JCR speculates, but possibly as much as a few notches if there is a major change on the part of related parties, such as replacement, disappearance, some drastic improvement/ deterioration of financial grounds/ balances, etc. E) Rise and Fall in General Economy and Markets The credit rating herewith presented could be changed if and when the assumptions made at the time of its determination turn out to be inaccurate with regard to the prospects of general economy and markets of e.g. interest rates. JCR expects the change should be most likely by a notch but could be as much as a few notches, should the economy or the markets change so greatly. 14 Information on the Representations, Warranties, and Enforcement Mechanisms of an Asset-backed Security as Required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(N) of rule 17g-7 The credit rating herewith presented is not for an ABS product, and hence no relevant issue. Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. Jiji Press Building, 5-15-8 Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0061, Japan Tel. +81 3 3544 7013, Fax. +81 3 3544 7026,Issuer Name Issue Name Publication Date Rating Outlook/Direction Vena Energy Holdings Ltd Issuer(Long-term)(FC) December 26, 2019 A- Stable The Historical Performance of the Credit Rating 1/1,Issuer Name Issue Name Publication Date Rating Outlook/Direction Vena Energy Capital Pte. Ltd. Issuer(Long-term)(FC) December 26, 2019 A- Stable Vena Energy Capital Pte. Ltd. Guaranteed Euro Medium Term Note Programme December 26, 2019 A- The Historical Performance of the Credit Rating 1/1,Attachment