© 2016 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 1 Assurance Report Base d on Green Bond Principles, 2018 Prayatna Developers Private Limited Parampujya Solar Energy Private Limited Adani Green Energy (UP) Limited February 2019 KPMG.com/in,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 2 Table of contents 1. Introduction 3 2. Assurance Standard 3 3. Scope 3 4. Approach 3 5. Exclusions 4 6. Independence 4 7. Management’s responsibility 4 8. Our responsibility 4 9. Conclusions 5 10. Appendix A 6 11. Appendix B 11,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 3 Introduction Parampujya Solar Energy Private Limited, Prayatna Developers Private Limited and Adani Green Energy (UP) Limited (Issuer) are proposing to issue a green bond and have appointed KPMG to provide independent assurance on their Green Bond Framework (framework). This report our opinion on conformance of their framework with the Green Bond Principles, 2018 Assurance Standard We conducted our engagement in accordance with requirements of ‘Limited Assurance’ as per International Federation of Accountants’ (IFAC) International Standard on Assurance Engagements [ISAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information]. Scope The scope of assurance included information on material aspects of the framework based on the requirements of the Green Bond Principles, 2018 as listed below: 1. Use of Proceeds 2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection 3. Management of Proceeds 4. Reporting Approach We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, information and explanations that we considered necessary to obtain a meaningful level of assurance in relation to the above scope. The procedures we performed, which are set out in more detail below, were based on our professional judgment and included, as appropriate, inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, evaluating the appropriateness of reporting policies and agreement or reconciliation with underlying records. We believe that the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained are sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. To reach our conclusion we: • Conducted interviews with management and key staff of Issuer responsible for the green bond to obtain an understanding of the processes, systems and controls in place for management of bond proceeds; • Checked the Issuer’s Green Bond Framework that includes processes, systems and controls in place for management of bond proceeds; investment areas for green bond proceeds and intended types of temporary investment instruments for the management of unallocated proceeds; and • Checked the list of nominated projects which are proposed to be associated with the green bond and their conformance with the eligible green project categories specified in the Green Bond Principles, 2018.,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 4 Exclusions Our assurance process was subject to the following limitations as we have not been engaged to: • Determine which, if any, recommendations should be implemented • Provide assurance on information outside the defined reporting boundary and period • Verify the Issuer’s financial statements & economic performance • Verify the Issuer’s statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention and national or global socio-economic and environmental aspects provided by the Issuer Independence The assurance was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including professionals with suitable skills and experience in auditing environmental, social and economic information in line with the requirements of ISAE 3000 standard. Our work was performed in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements, that the members of the assurance team (practitioners) as well as the assurance firm (assurance provider) be independent of the assurance client, in relation to the scope of this assurance engagement. The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. The firm applies ISQC 1 and the practitioner complies with the applicable independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA code. Management’s responsibility The Management of the Issuer is responsible for ensuring that the Issuer and their green bond complies with the requirements of the Green Bond Principles, 2018. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the management of green bond proceeds. The Management of the Issuer is also responsible for preventing and detecting fraud and for identifying and ensuring that Issuer complies with laws and regulations applicable to its activities. Our responsibility Our responsibility is to report in the form of an independent limited assurance conclusion in relation to the above scope based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained. We conducted our engagement with a multidisciplinary team which included professionals with suitable skills and experience in auditing environmental, social and economic information in line with the requirements of ISAE 3000 standard. This assurance report is made solely to Issuer in accordance with the terms of our engagement, which include agreed arrangements for disclosure. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to Issuer those matters we have been engaged to state in this assurance report and for no other purpose. Our assurance report should not be regarded as suitable to be used or relied on by any party wishing to acquire rights against us other than Issuer for any purpose or in any context. Any party other than Issuer who obtains access to our assurance report or a copy thereof and chooses to rely on our assurance report (or any part thereof) will do so at its own risk. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we accept or assume no responsibility and deny any,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 5 liability to any party other than Issuer for our work, for this independent limited assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. Conclusion The following conclusion is based on the work performed, evidence obtained and the scope of our assurance engagement described above. Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Green Bond Framework to be used for issuance of green bonds by the Issuer, is not, in all material respects, conforming to the requirements of the Green Bond Principles, 2018. The nominated projects and assets that are proposed to be associated with the Issuer’s green bond offering include 25 solar projects (24 operational projects and 1 near completion project) with a cumulative capacity of 930 MW in the states of Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra in India. Depending on financing requirements, the actual list of projects to which bond proceeds are allocated may change, however these details would be captured in the post-issuance assessment. The list of testing procedures carried out are provided in Appendix A along with the list of documents reviewed in Appendix B.,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 6 Appendix A Assessment of Issuer’s Green Bond Framework against Green Bond Principles (GBP), 2018 Requirements to be fulfilled as per GBP 2018 KPMG Assessment Supporting Documentation 1. Use of Proceeds (a) Legal documentation describes utilization of the bond proceeds for Green Projects Issuer has prepared a Green Bond Framework which lays down their mechanism of fund raising from Green Bonds. It also includes a decision-making process to determine the eligibility of the nominated projects and assets. The Eligible Green Projects are identified and selected based on qualification of the project as a solar project and feasibility analysis (including off-taker profile, location, capacity, timelines, and other technical and commercial conditions) conducted for the projects. Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) study is also undertaken for a few of the projects. • Green Bond Framework (b) Green Project categories that will be financed through the bond proceeds should provide clear environmental benefits The environmental objectives of the bond are to use the proceeds in solar projects in a manner that is consistent with Issuer’s sustainable values. The Issuer’s process for evaluation and selection of nominated projects and assets assesses their eligibility with respect to this criteria. The Issuer’s process for evaluation and selection of nominated projects and assets assesses their eligibility with respect to this criteria. • Green Bond Framework (c) Environmental benefits of the Green Projects will be assessed and, where feasible, quantified by the issuer For each project re-financed through green bond proceeds, the Issuer will report on: • Use of proceeds (project type, capacity and location) for each green bond issued; • Current allocated and outstanding amounts and contractual maturity dates ; and • Reduction in Green House Gases achieved • Green Bond Framework,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 7 Requirements to be fulfilled as per GBP 2018 KPMG Assessment Supporting Documentation (d) Reporting on estimate of share of financing vs. re - financing from bond proceeds (Recommended by GBP) The Issuer has estimated that all the bond proceeds would be used for re-financing its eligible solar projects. - (e) Reporting on which investments or project portfolios may be refinanced (Recommended by GBP) The Issuer has estimated that all the bond proceeds would be used for re-financing its eligible solar projects. - 2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection (a) Issuer should outline the following: i) Process to determine how the projects fit within the eligible Green Projects categories identified Issuer has prepared a Green Bond Framework which lays down their mechanism of fund raising from Green Bonds. Issuer will use the bond proceeds for refinancing the eligible green projects. Net proceeds from the bond after deducting fees and expenses will be deposited in an Escrow Account. The funds in the Escrow Account will be used to refinance Foreign Currency Loan, Indian Rupee Borrowings and shareholder loan stemming from expenditures related to the eligible projects. The nominated projects and assets that are proposed to be associated with the Issuer’s green bond offering include 25 solar projects (24 operational projects and 1 near completion project) with a cumulative capacity of 930 MW in the states of Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra in India. • Green Bond Framework • List of solar projects under all three entities ii) Related eligibility criteria The proceeds from the green bond will be used to re-finance solar projects only which is in line with the list of broad categories for green projects recognized by GBP, 2018. • List of solar projects under all three entities • Sample set of financing loan agreements for solar projects iii) Environmental sustainability objectives The green bond proceeds will be used to re-finance solar projects only i.e. using proceeds in accordance with the GBP, 2018. • List of solar projects (b) The GBP recommends positioning the above information within the context of the Issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and / or processes applied to identify and manage potentially The Issuer conducts an environmental and social appraisal for its projects in accordance with the IFC Performance Standard. which involves consideration of the key environmental and social impacts associated with these projects. • Green Bond Framework,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 8 Requirements to be fulfilled as per GBP 2018 KPMG Assessment Supporting Documentation material environmental and social risks associated with the projects (Recommended by GBP) (c) The GBP encourage a high level of transparency and recommend that an issuer’s process for project evaluation and selection be supplemented by an external review The Issuer has appointed a third party assurance provider to provide assurance services on the green bond in accordance with GBP 2018. • Green Bond Framework 3. Management of Proceeds (a) The net proceeds of Green Bonds should be credited to a sub-account, moved to a sub-portfolio or otherwise tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner Net proceeds from the bond after deducting fees and expenses will be deposited in an Escrow Account. The funds in the Escrow Account will be used to refinance Foreign Currency Loan, Indian Rupee Borrowings and shareholder loan stemming from expenditures related to the eligible projects. • Green Bond Framework (b) The net proceeds of the Green Bonds should be attested to by the issuer in a formal internal process linked to the issuer’s lending and investment operations for Green Projects Net proceeds from the bond after deducting fees and expenses will be deposited in an Escrow Account. The funds in the Escrow Account will be used to refinance Foreign Currency Loan, Indian Rupee Borrowings and shareholder loan stemming from expenditures related to the eligible solar projects. (c) Formal internal process to track net bond proceeds that is linked to the lending and investment operations for Green Projects The Issuer’s Escrow account will be used to refinance foreign currency loan, borrowings and expensiture related to the eligible projects. • Green Bond Framework (d) Process to check balance of proceeds are reduced by amounts matching eligible green investments or loan disbursements made during that period The Issuer’s Escrow account will manage the balance of bond proceeds basis the investment made in eligible solar projects. • Sample set of financing loan agreements for solar projects (e) List of intended types of temporary investment instruments for the balance of unallocated proceeds The proceeds from the bond will be kept in temporary investment instruments that are cash (Escrow Account), demand or time deposit accounts with select scheduled commercial banks in India, certificates of deposit and debt mutual funds, maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition thereof. • Green Bond Framework (f) The GBP recommend that an issuer’s management of proceeds be supplemented by the use of an auditor, or other third party, to verify the internal tracking The Issuer has appointed a third party assurance provider to provide assurance services on the use of proceeds in accordance with GBP 2018. • Guidelines and Internal Processes for Green Bonds,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 9 Requirements to be fulfilled as per GBP 2018 KPMG Assessment Supporting Documentation method and the allocation of funds from the Green Bond proceeds 4. Reporting (a) The issuer should make, and keep, readily available up to date information on: i) The use of proceeds to be renewed annually until full allocation, and as necessary thereafter in the event of new developments The Issuer has maintained an excel sheet with internal monitoring of use of proceeds for projects eligible under Green Bonds Principles. • List of solar projects under all three entities ii) List of projects to which proceeds have been allocated iii) Brief description of the projects iv) Amounts allocated to projects Issuer has documented the nominated projects and assets proposed to be associated with the bond. These are as follows: • 100 MW solar project in Punjab • 50 MW solar project in Andhra Pradesh • 50 MW solar project in Uttar Pradesh • 20 MW solar project in Rajasthan • 100 MW solar project in Karnataka • 50 MW solar project in Karnataka • 40 MW solar project in Karnataka • 10 MW solar project in Karnataka • 50 MW solar project in Telangana • 50 MW solar project in Telangana • 100 MW solar project in Chhattisgarh • 20 MW solar project in Maharashtra • 12 solar projects of 20 MW each in Karnataka (240 MW) • 50 MW solar project in Uttar Pradesh The amount allocated to these projects will be verified once the bond is issued. • List of solar projects under all three entities • Sample set of financing loan agreements for solar projects • Commissioning certificates and power purchase agreements for 24 solar projects v) Expected impact of projects (using qualitative performance indicators and quantitative performance indicators, where feasible) with key underlying methodology and / or assumptions used in the quantitative determination The Isser will report through its website : (i) the use of proceeds (project type, capacity and location) for each green bond issued; and (ii) reduction in Green House Gases achieved • Green Bond Framework vi) Regular reporting of the achieved impacts by the Issuer (Recommended by GBP) The Issuer will report on its website: • Green Bond Framework,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 10 Requirements to be fulfilled as per GBP 2018 KPMG Assessment Supporting Documentation (i) the use of proceeds (project type, capacity and location) for each green bond issued; and (ii) reduction in Green House Gases achieved (in tonnes per carbon di oxide avoided per project vii) Voluntary guidelines aiming at a harmonized framework for impact reporting exist for energy efficiency, renewable energy, water and wastewater projects The green bond financed solar projects will report on certain impact indicators in the Annual Report. Some of these indicators are: (i) Carbon dioxide emission reductions per annum (ii) Capacity of renewable energy plants constructed in MW • Green Bond Framework 5. Appendix I (a) Currently four types of Green Bonds are covered under GBP: i) Green Use of Proceeds Bond ii) Green Use of Proceeds Revenue Bond iii) Green Project Bond iv) Green Securitized Bond The Issuer has proposed to issue a Green Use of Proceeds Bond,© 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 11 Appendix B List of documents reviewed • Green Bond Framework • List of sanctioned solar projects under all three entities • Sample set of financing loan agreements for solar projects • Commissioning certificates and power purchase agreements for 24 projects,© 2016 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), A Swiss entity. All rights reserved. 12 ////////////////// Santhosh Jayaram Partner Climate Change and Sustainability T +91 98458 96600 E santhoshj@kpmg.com Manpreet Singh Director Climate Change and Sustainability T +91 98182 87330 E manpreetsingh@kpmg.com The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although we endeavour to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future. No one should act on such information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough examination of the particular situation. © 2019 KPMG, an Indian Registered Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved. The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks or tr ademarks of KPMG International.