Latest update: June 2018 Green Bond / Green Bond Programme Independent External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: AutoWallis Nyrt Green Bond ISIN : HU0000360664 Independent External Review provider’s name: SustainAdvisory S.r.l. Completion date of this form: 2 7 /07/2021 Publication date of review publication: NA Section 2 . Review o verview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate , to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use o f Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Second Party Opinion ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Scoring/ Rating ☒ Other (please specify) : External third party limited assurance Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) AutoWallis Nyrt (‘AW’ or ‘Issuer’ or ‘Company’) appointed SustainAdvisory S.r.l. to provide an independent limited assurance on AutoWallis’ Group Green Finance Framework (the ‘Framework’). AutoWallis is engaged in the retail and wholesale trade of vehicles, spare parts, vehicles repair and rental services, directly and through its group subsidiaries, in 14 countries of the Central and Eastern European region . The Group is pursuing a consolidation strategy to become the leading car dealership and mobility service provider of the Central and Eastern European region by the end of the decade. The Company has developed a sustainability strategy focused on innovatio n and adaptation: offering innovative, environmentally friendly, mobility,Page 2 of 7 solutions like car sharing, short term and long - term car rentals; increasing fleet electrification rate (with more full - electric or hybrid models); and improving the energy efficienc y of its real estate portfolio (dealership buildings and show rooms) to reduce the Company’s direct and indirect carbon footprint and environmental impact. As part of its sustainability strategy, AutoWallis is proposing to fund a portion of its investment plan through a combination of green bonds and green loans. The eligible projects include new investments and the addition of ‘green features’ to existing assets. The projects will address Sustainability Development Goals indicated by AutoWallis as strateg ic priorities: Affordable and Clean Energy (Goal 7), Sustainable Cities and Communities (Goal 11), Sustainable Consumption and Production (Goal 12). The projects will contribute to environmental objectives of ‘Climate Change Mitigation’ and ‘Pollution prev ention and Control’. Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review . 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : AutoWallis’ Eligible Green Projects provide environmental benefits and contribute to environmental objectives connected to ‘ Climate Change Mitigation’ and ‘Pollution Prevention and Control’ as well as SDGs . Eli gible Projects are expected to substantially contribute to direct and indirect GHG emission avoidance/reduction by: increasing the ratio of zero emissions vehicles in the total fleet; increasing the number of EV charging stations at dealership sites ; investments for real - estate retrofitting to reach higher energy efficiency by increasing renewable energy and other technical solutions; investments in new commercial buildings with high energy efficiency certified by an energy certificate; investments in manufacturing and mobility services contributing to energy efficiency improvement ; renewal of lighting and cooling - heating systems in commercial buildings ; centralizing energy purchases from green sources. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP : ☒ Renewable energy ☒ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally su stainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic b iodiversity conservation ☒ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings,Page 3 of 7 ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable) : AutoWallis has created a Green Finance Committee (‘GFC’ or ‘Committee’) t o supervise the governance of the Green Framework including the process for project evaluation and selection . Project categories are identified a ccording to the Green Bond and Loan Principles definitions and AutoWallis ’ sustainability objectives. Eligible Green Projects will be selected on the basis of their contribut ion to the environmental objectives of ‘Climate change mitigation’ and ‘Pollution prevention and control’ and the UN Sustainable Goals SDG 7 (Affordable and cleaning energy), the SDG 11 (Sustainable cities and communities) and the SDG 12 (S ustainable consumption and production). Autowallis has defined selection and exclusion criteria disclosed publicly in the Green Finance Framework. T he proceeds of Green Bond and/or Green Loan will not be used to finance standalone projects connected to high - polluting activities, nuclear energy generation, weapons and defence, gambling or tobacco, and environmentally negative resource extraction . The evaluation and selection criteria are subject to an in - house assessment. In matters requirin g special sustainability expertise, the Green Finance Committee will require the involvement of an external expert. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☐ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☐ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☒ In - house assessment ☒ Other (please specify) : I nvolvement of an external expert 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : AutoWallis’ process for the Management and Allocation of Proceeds is clearly defined in the Framework. The proceeds from the Green Bonds/Loans will be allocated to approved Eligible Green Projects following the decisions by the Green Finance Committee. The proceeds will be segregated in a separate account. A ccord ing to the Group’s treasury policy, the proceeds from the Green Finance instruments will be firstly allocated to AutoWallis Szolgáltató Kft, which is a 100% subsidiary of the AutoWallis Nyrt and is responsible for the,Page 4 of 7 financing services of the group companies. In tur n, AW Szolgáltató Kft. will lend a given amount of green finance proceeds to the Group company developing the green project. Any unallocated amount of proceeds will be returned to AW Szolgáltató Kft. as the sole manager of the green finance proceeds. Pendi ng allocation, the net proceeds may be invested in cash or cash equivalents in accordance with AutoWallis cash management policies not harming any of the environmental objectives. AutoWallis will make and keep readily available information on the allocatio n of amounts equal to n et p roceeds. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☐ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☒ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable) : AutoWallis will make and keep readily available reporting on the Eligible Green Project Portfolio and Green Finance instruments outstanding. The GFC will supervise the development of monitoring and reporting procedures related to the use of Green Bond/Loan proceeds, that will be included in the Allocation Report and Impact Report. This report will illustrate the expected and achieved environmental impacts associated to the green projects financed by the Green Bond/Loan proceeds (2020 levels will be used as the base l ine to perform reduction measurements). Use of proceeds reporting: ☒ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☒ Linkage to individual bond (s) ☒ Other (please specify ): linkage to individual green loan Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ G reen B ond financed share of total investment ☒ Other (please specify): – amount of unallocated proceeds – aggregated proportion of net proceeds used per green project category Frequency:,Page 5 of 7 ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify) : Impact reporting: ☒ Project - by - project ☐ On a project portfolio basis ☒ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☒ Other (please specify): linkage to individual green loan Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☒ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify ): - the number of new EV charging stations - the number of EVs in the fleet - installation of solar power station - installation of LED lighting fixture Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☒ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): company website: https://autowallis.hu/ ☒ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate , please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer ’s documentation, etc.) Press Releases – Autowallis ( https://autowallis.hu/press - releases/?lang=en ) AutoWallis_Green - Finance - Framework_ 06_07_finalversion.pdf SPO_Assurance - Report - AutoWallis_Executed - 08072021 - SA - Srl.pdf SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEW S AVAILABLE , IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Second Party Opinion ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Scoring/ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Assurance Opinion Review provider(s): SustainAdvisory S.r.l. Date of publication:,Page 6 of 7,Page 7 of 7 ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDER S AS DEFINED BY THE GBP 1. Second Party Opinion : An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as informatio n barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issu er’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. 2. Verification: An issuer can obtain independe nt verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the en vironmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceed s, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. 3. Certification : An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external gr een standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. 4. Green Bond Scoring/Rating : An i ssuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless ref lect material environmental risks.