© 2020 | Institutional Shareholder Services and/or its affiliates S ECOND PARTY OP INI ON ( SP O) Re - verification of the Sustainability Quality of the Issuer and Green Bond Asset Pool Berlin Hyp AG 24 April 2020,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 2 o f 2 0 C O N T E N T S Overall Evaluation of the Green Bond ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 3 ISS ESG ASSESSMENT SUMMARY ................................ ................................ ................................ ........ 3 Contribution of the Green Bond to the UN SDGs ................................ ................................ ............... 4 ISS ESG SPO ASSESSMENT ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................... 6 PART I: SUSTAINABILITY BOND PRINCIPLES ................................ ................................ ........................ 6 PART II: SUSTAINABILITY QUALITY OF THE GREEN BOND ASSET POOL ................................ ............ 10 PART III: ASSESSMENT OF CLIENT NAME’S ESG PERFORMANCE ................................ ...................... 12 ANNEX 1: ISS ESG Corporate Rating ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 14 ANNEX 2: Methodology ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................ 19 About ISS ESG SPO ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ 20,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 3 o f 2 0 Overall Evaluation of the Green Bond Berlin Hyp AG (“Berlin Hyp”) commissioned ISS ESG to assist with its Green Bond re - verification by assessing th ree core elements to determine the sustainability quality of the Bond: 1. Berlin Hyp ’s Green Bond framework – benchmarked against the Internat ional Capital Market Association's ( ICMA ) Green Bond Principles (GBPs ). 2. The asset pool – whether the projects aligned with ISS ESG ’s issue - specific key performance indicators (KPIs) (See Annex 2 ). 3. Berlin Hyp’s sustainability performance, according to the ISS ESG C orporate R ating. ISS ESG ASSESSMENT SUMMARY 1 The ISS ESG ’s present evaluation will remain valid until any modification of the Green Bond Framework or addition of new assets into the asset pool by the issuer and as long as the C orporate Rating does not change (last modification on the 12.07 .2019). The controvers y check of the underlying assets has been conducted on the 15.04.2020 . 2 Rank relative to industry group. 1 indicates a high relative ESG performance, while 10 indicates a low relative ESG performan ce. SPO SECTION SUMMARY EVALUATION 1 Part 1: Performance against GBPs The issuer has defined a formal concept for its Green Bonds regarding use of proceeds, processes for project evaluation and selection, management of proceeds and reporting. This concept is in line with the ICMA GBPs. Positive Part 2: Sustainability quality of the asset pool The overall sustainability quality of the asset pool in terms of sustainability benefit s, risk avoidance and minimisation is good based upon the ISS ESG Green Bond KPIs. The Green Bond KPIs conta in a clear description of eligible asset categories which consists of Commercial Real Estate exclusively. All assets of the a sset pool are located in highly regulated and developed countries. Legislative frameworks in those countries set minimum standards, wh ich reduce e nvironmental and social risks. Positive Part 3: Issuer sustainability performance The issuer itself shows a good sustainability performance and has been given a rating of B - , which classifies it as ‘Prime’ by the methodology of the ISS ESG Corporate Rating. It is rated 2 nd out of 127 companies within its sector as of 24 .04.2020 . This equates to a high relative performance, with a Decile Rank 2 of 1 . Status: Prime Rating: B - Decile Rank: 1,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 4 o f 2 0 Contribution of the Green Bond to the UN SDGs Based on the assessment of the sustainability quality of the green bond asset pool and using a proprietary methodology, ISS ESG assessed the contribution of Berlin Hyp’s green bond s to the Sustainable Development Goals defined by the United Nations (UN SDGs). This assessment is displayed on 5 - point scale (see Annex 2 for methodology): Significant Obstruction Limited Obstruction No Net Impact Limited Contribution Significant Contribution Each of the bond’ s Use of Proceeds categories has been assessed for its contribution to, or obstruction of, the SDGs: USE OF PROCEEDS CONTRIBUTION OR OBSTRUCTION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPM ENT GOALS Commercial Real Estate (with sustainability certifications LEED Gold or above, BREEAM Very Good or above, DGNB Gold or above, or HQE High Level or above) Significant Contribution Commercial Real Estate ( meeting high energy efficiency requirements defined in the framework ) Limited Contribution,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 5 o f 2 0 Annual CO2 Avoidance of the buildings in the Asset Pool Berlin Hyp established two baselines in order to compare the buildings to existing standards: The first baseline is the average energy performance of European buildings, the second one the German Energy Savings Ordinance (EnEV). Further, Berlin Hyp chose to provide investors with the carbon avoidance that is linked to Berlin Hyp’s initial financing share of the respective buildings as well as with the complete carbon avoidance, i.e. the avoidance caused by the complete buildings. More details on the methodology regar ding CO2 avoidance can be found in the initial Second Party Opinion from 2016. The calculation s were based on an a ssessment of the carbon intensity of different energy sources for heating and differentiation of carbon intensity of each country’s electrici ty mix and district heating supply as well as further differentiation of the district heating supply in Germany by regio n. The calculations on energy and CO2 data were carried out by Berlin Hyp, ISS ESG carried out a basic plausibility check. More informat ion on the calculations is provided by Berlin Hyp at https://www.berlinhyp.de/en/investors/green - bonds . The following table shows the results of estimations and calculations on the CO2 performance of the buildings within the asset p ool for the Green Bond Programme (excluding buildings that were in the cover pool at issuance of the Green Pfandbrief in 2015). ANNUAL CO 2 AVOIDANCE OF THE BU ILDINGS IN THE ASSET POOL (T/MEUR P.Y) Baseline for CO 2 avoidance Proportional allocation to Berlin Hyp initial financing share Complete allocation to Berlin Hyp financing Against the European average (heating energy only) 8.24 t/mEUR 15.21 t/mEUR Against current EnEV reference values (heating energy and electricity) 2 2.58 t/ mEUR 3 9.89 t/mEUR,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 6 o f 2 0 ISS ESG SPO ASSESSMENT PART I : GREEN BOND PRINCIPLES 1. Use of Proceeds The proceeds of the Green Bonds (Green Pfandbriefe as well as Green Seniors) to be issued by Berlin Hyp will be exclusively used to financ e and refinanc e the acquisition, construction or refurbishment of Green Buildings. These Green Buildings serve as collateral for loans granted by or to be granted by Berlin Hyp. If they are used for Green Pfandbriefe the loans have to be eligible for and included in or to be included in the bank's mortgage cover pool. Details regarding the assets included in the Green Bond are listed in the following table (based on loans outstanding): GREEN ASSET CATEGORY NUMBER OF OBJEC TS VOLUME OF GREEN BOND ASSET POOL (EUR MILL ION) Green Buildings: Commercial real estate 180 buildings 5, 479.55 TOTAL 5,479.55 (100%) Opinion: ISS ESG considers the Use of Proceeds description provided by Berlin Hyp ’s Framework as aligned with the Green Bond Principles. Sustainability objectives are clearly stated and align with the strategy of Berlin Hyp. 2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection Berlin Hyp has established a Green Building Commission (GBC). This consists of one representative from each of the following divisions of the bank: Corporate Strategy, Origination, Credit, Appraisal and Treasury. In its regular meetings the GBC d iscusses whether eligibility criteria are still in line with market best practices of Green Building definition. If not, the GBC will discuss possible changes and decide on how to adapt the eligibility criteria. Any change shall only lead to stricter crite ria, which means a lower level of energy demand and/or consumption. At the beginning of the acquisition process, Berlin Hyp’s borrowers are being asked to provide relevant documents concerning the eligibility for the bank’s green finance portfolio, i.e. pr imarily EPCs and sustainability certificates. Energy demand calculations are used in case of property developments. The experts in the bank’s appraisal division assess a property’s qualification as a green building. In case of a positive decision by the ap praisers, sales staff is allowed to deduct up to 10 basis points when pre - calculating the loan. Credit staff documents an asset’s green building eligibility in the bank’s loan monitoring system. After documentation, Treasury vote s on the asset’s compliance with the green finance portfolio eligibility criteria and whether it should be included in Berlin Hyp’s green finance portfolio. This ensures a four - eye - principle with respect to the identification process. Only loans that have b een approved by both divisions, Appraisal and Treasury, are classified by credit staff as green bond,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 7 o f 2 0 eligible in the bank’s loan monitoring system. In any case, data on the properties’ energy efficiency and sustainability are entered into the loan monitori ng system even if a property doesn’t fulfill eligibility criteria. As this process is applied to all new business, it is one of Berlin Hyp’s longer term targets to provide evidence about its entire mortgage loan portfolio’s energy efficiency. If the docume nt proving a green buildings’ eligibility expires, Berlin Hyp will ask its borrower for new evidence in order to re - assess the property’s eligibility. Borrowers are allowed a one - year grace period to provide new evidence. If a borrower does not provide a n ew EPC and/or sustainability certificate or the new EPC and/or sustainability certificate does not meet Berlin Hyp’s eligibility criteria, the asset is removed from the bank’s portfolio of eligible assets. Eligibility criteria PROPERTY TYPE ENERGY DEMAND HEATING KWH/(M²*A) ENERGY DEMAND ELECTRICITY KWH/(M²*A) IN TOTAL KWH/(M²*A) Residential 60 - 60 Office 3 80 60 140 Retail 60 75 135 Hotels 95 60 155 Logistics buildings (use: storage) 30 35 65 Light industrial (use: production) 105 65 170 In addition/alternatively, eligibility criteria include the following external sustainability certifications: • LEED – Gold or above • BREEAM – Very Good or above • DGNB – Gold or above • HQE – High Level or above Eligible assets shall also meet other environmental a nd/or social criteria. These assets are not to be used for the production of arms, pesticides, tobacco, pornography, nuclear power, coal, oil and fossil fuels. Opinion: ISS ESG considers the Process for Project Evaluation and Selection description provided by Berlin Hyp’s Green Bond Framework as aligned with the Green Bond Principles . The Responsibilities are clearly defined and the eligibility criteria are transparently display ed and reviewed frequently to ensure their alignment with market best practices. 3 Based on third - party energy consultant data, Berlin Hyp decided in 2020 to further strengthen the category threshold for office buildings in order to reflect Berlin Hyp’s long term strategy and its specific asset portfolio.,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 8 o f 2 0 3. Management of Proceeds Eligible assets already exist on Berlin Hyp's balance sheet (and in the case of a Green Pfandbrief in its mortgage cover pool) at issuance of a new Gree n Bond. They are not booked in a separate portfolio but flagged in the bank's legal loan monitoring system. Thus, they form a sub - portfolio of Berlin Hyp’s overall loan book. The bank shall report on the development of this sub - portfolio on an annual basis . Opinion: ISS ESG finds that Management of Proceeds proposed by Berlin Hyp’s Green Bond Framework aligns with the Green Bond Principles. The proceeds are appropriately tracked internally. 4. Reporting Berlin Hyp provides information about its green bonds on its website www.berlinhyp.de/de/investoren/green - bonds . The English version of the website may be found under www.berlinhyp.de/en/investors/green - bonds . Relevant documents and information concerning the bank's green bond activities are published on its website. This also contains the bank's reports on its green bonds. As long as Ber lin Hyp has green bonds outstanding, the bank will report on an annual basis. Each report will contain details about: i. The development of eligible assets on Berlin Hyp's balance sheet and in its mortgage cover pool on a stratified basis ii. New business in elig ible assets since the last report and assignment of eligible assets to issued bonds on a loan - by - loan basis iii. Carbon emissions avoidance (impact reporting) evaluated in comparison to one or more appropriate baselines 4 . Berlin Hyp publishes annual green bond reportings since 2016. Reports will remain available for investors for future reference on the bank’s website. Opinion: ISS ESG finds that the reporting proposed Berlin Hyp Green Bond Framework aligns with the Green Bond Principles. The allocation and impa ct reporting occur s annually on the integrality of its mortgage cover pool, on a stratified basis . The impact reporting aligns with best market practices thanks to the comparison of the reported data with appropriate baselines and to the transparency of its calculation methodology. 4 The methodology for calculating carbon emissions avoidance is document in every edition of Berlin Hyp’s Annual Green Bond Reporting and published on its website.,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 9 o f 2 0 External review Second Party Opinion Berlin Hyp has appointed ISS ESG to assess the sustainability of its Green Bond Program. ISS ESG applies its own framework to carry out this assessment. The results are do cumented in ISS ESG's Second Party Opinion which is available on the bank's website. The Second Party Opinion refers to the whole Green Bond Program and includes every security that is issued under it. Annual Re - verification ISS ESG or any other party appo inted by Berlin Hyp later as a successor for ISS ESG in the future will issue a report verifying the compliance of all issued bonds with the criteria documented in this program on an annual basis. These reports will reflect the results of the assessment of the sustainability performance of the program and the issued Green Pfandbriefe and Green Senior bonds. The reports will be published on the bank's website.,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 1 0 o f 2 0 PART II : S USTAINABILITY QUALITY OF THE ASSET POOL Green commercial real estate As a Use of Proceeds category, green commercial real estate has a limited contribution to the SDG 11 “Sustainable cities and communities” , when meeting stringent enough sustainability criteria. The table below presents the findings of an ISS ESG assessment of the assets (re - ) financed against KPIs related to environmental and social risks applicable for commercial real estate. A S S E S S M E N T A G A I N S T I S S E S G K P I Prerequisite: Energy efficiency ✓ All the assets underwent an appropriate and detailed selection process that ensures good standards regarding energy efficiency. All the assets are in line with the German Energy Savings Regulation (EnEV) and/or have received sustainability certificates such as LEED (Gold or above), BREEAM (Very Good or above), DGNB (Gold or above), HQE (High Level or above). 1. Environmental standards for site selection ✓ All assets are located in metropolitan areas, avoiding the risk of greenfield construction. ✓ 173 assets out of 180, accounting for 97 .4 % of the asset pool, are located within a maximum of 1 km from one or more modalities of public transport. 2. Construction standards ✓ All the assets are located in countries where high labour and health and safety standards are in place for construction and maintenance work (e.g. ILO core conventions).  For less than 50% of the assets in the asset pool, sustainable procurement measures regarding building materials are in place (e.g. recycled materials, third - party certification of wood - based materials). No information is available for the remaining assets. 3. Water use minimisation in buildings ✓ For more than 50% of the assets in the asset pool, adequate measures to reduce water use (e.g. greywater recycling, efficient applications) are in place. No infor mation in available for the remaining assets. 4. Safety of building users ✓ 157 assets out of 180, accounting for 85.5% of the asset pool, provide for measures to ensure operational safety (e.g. requirements for fire protection, in line with national legislation). No information is available for the other assets.,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 1 1 o f 2 0 5. Sustainability labels/ certificates  49 assets out of 180, accounting for 39.6% of the asset pool, have obtained a (or an equivalent of) BREEAM “Very Good”, DGNB “Gold” , LEED “Gold”, HQE “excellent” certificate or better certification. No information, or lower certification scores have been obtained for the other assets. Controversy assessment A controversy assessment on the included projects did not reveal any controversial activities or practices that could be attributed to Berlin Hyp.,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 1 2 o f 2 0 PART III: ASSESSMENT OF BERLIN HYP ’S ESG PERFORMANCE The ISS ESG Corporate Rating provides a rating and then designates a company as ‘Prime 5 ’ or ‘Not Prime’ based on its performance relative to the industry sector. It is also assigned a Decile Rank, indicating this relative industry group performance, with 1 indicating a high relative ESG performance, and 10 a low relative ESG performance. C O M P A N Y B E R L I N H Y P A G S T A T U S P R I M E R a t i n g B - D E C I L E R A N K 1 This means that the company performed well in terms of sustainability, both compared against others in the industry and in terms of the industry - specific requireme nts defined by ISS ESG . In ISS ESG ’s view, the securities issued by the company therefore all meet the basic requirements for sustainable investments. As of 24 .04.2020 . this rating places Berlin Hyp 2 nd out of 127 companies rated by ISS ESG in the Mortgage & Public Sector Finance sector. Key Challenges facing companies in term of sustainability management in this sector are: ▪ Sustainability impacts of lending and other financial services/products ▪ Statutory ESG - standards linked to the geographical allocation of the lending portfolio ▪ Customer and product responsibility ▪ Employee relations and work environment In all of the key issues, Berlin Hyp rates above the average for the sector . A very significant outperformance was achieved in “ Sustainability impacts of lending and other financial services/products” and “Employee r elations and work environment ”. The company does not face any controversy. Details on the rating of the issuer can be found in Annex 1 . Robert Hassler, Head of ISS ESG Ratings London/Munich/Rockville/Zurich 5 Prime is only awarded to the top sector performers, often less than 10% of companies within the respective sector.,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 1 3 o f 2 0 DISCLAIMER 1. Validity of the SPO: For Berlin Hyp’s potential Green Bond /Green Schuldscheindarlehen issuances occurring between April 2020 and April 2021 . 2. ISS ESG uses a scientifically based rating concept to analyse and evaluate the environmental and social performance of companies and countries. In doing so, we adhere to the highes t quality standards which are customary in responsibility research worldwide. In addition, we create a Second Party Opinion (SPO) on bonds based on data from the issuer. 3. We would, however, point out that we do not warrant that the information presented in this SPO is complete, accurate or up to date. Any liab ility on the part of ISS ESG in connection with the use of these SPO, the information provided in them and the use thereof shall be excluded. In particular, we point out that the verification of the co mpliance with the se - lection criteria is based solely on random samples and documents submitted by the issuer. 4. All statements of opinion and value judgements given by us do not in any way constitute purchase or investment recommendations. In particular, t he SPO is no assessment of the economic profitability and credit worthiness of a bond but refers exclusively to the social and environmental criteria mentioned above. 5. We would point out that this SPO, in particular the images, text and graphics contained t herein, and the layout and company logo of ISS ESG and ISS - ESG are protected under copyright and trademark law. Any use thereof shall require the express prior written consent of ISS. Use shall be deemed to refer in particular to the copying or duplication of the SPO wholly or in part, the distribution of the SPO, either free of charge or against payment, or the exploitation of this SPO in any other conceivable manner. The issuer that is the subject of this report may have purchased self - assessment tools and publications from ISS Corporate Solutions, Inc. ("ICS"), a wholly - owned subsidiary of ISS, or ICS may have provided advisory or analytical services to the issuer. No employee of ICS played a role in the preparation of this report. If you are an ISS institutional client, you may inquire about any issuer's use of products and services from ICS by emailing disclosure@is sgovernance.com . This report has not been submitted to, nor received approval from, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body. While ISS exercised due care in compiling this report, it makes no warranty, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of this information and assumes no liability with respect to the consequences of relying on this information for investment or other purposes. In particular, the research and scores provided are n ot intended to constitute an offer, solicitation or advice to buy or sell securities nor are they intended to solicit votes or proxies. ISS is an independent company owned by entities affiliated Genstar Capital ("Genstar"). ISS and Genstar have established policies and procedures to restrict the involvement of Genstar and any of Genstar's employees in the content of ISS' reports. Neither Genstar nor their employees are informed of the contents of any of ISS' analyses or reports prior to their publication or dissemination. The issuer that is the subject of this report may be a client of ISS or ICS, or the parent of, or affiliated with, a client of ISS or ICS. © 20 20 | Institutional Shareholder Services and/or its affiliates,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 1 4 o f 2 0 ANNEX 1 : ISS ESG Corporate Rating T he following pages contain extracts from Berlin Hyp ISS ESG Corporate Rating .,ESG Corporate Rating Berlin Hyp AG D- D D+ C- C C+ B- B B+ A- A A+ poor medium good excellent The assessment of a company’s sustainability performance is based on approximately 100 criteria, selected specifically for each industry. A company’s failure to disclose, or lack of transparency, regarding these matters will impact a company’s rating negatively 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Indicates decile rank relative to industry group. A decile rank of 1 indicates a high relative ESG performance, while a 10 indicates a lower relative ESG performance. Industry Financials/Mortgage & Public Sector Finance Country Germany ISIN DE000A1EWN89 Status Prime Rating B- Prime Threshold C Decile Rank 1 Absolute Rating Decile Rank Low relative performance High relative performance Industry Leaders Key Issue Performance Company name (in alphabetical order) Country Grade Berlin Hyp AG DE B- Münchener Hypothekenbank eG DE B- de Volksbank N.V. NL B Legend: Industry Company Prime Employee relations and work environment Customer and product responsibility Statutory ESG-standards linked to the geographical allocation of the lending portfolio Sustainability impacts of lending and other financial services/products D C B A Distribution of Ratings Rating History 127 companies in the industry 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% D- D D+ C- C C+ B- B B+ A- A A+ D C B A 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 ESG Corporate Rating / Last Modification: 2019-07-12 © ISS ESG,Berlin Hyp AG Sustainability Opportunities Sustainability Risks Governance Opinion Analyst Opinion With regard to the company's main sphere of activities, large-volume real estate financing, there is potential for the provision of funding to social housing. Albeit some loans of that kind were granted to charitable housing cooperatives, volumes are not publicly disclosed and thus such finance is estimated to remain still modest. In the environmental domain the company endeavors to promote environmentally friendly commercial real estate by issuing several green bonds in two assets classes (Pfandbrief; senior unsecured). Underlying assets qualify for the mortgage covered pool through certain green building standards, such as BREEAM, LEED or DGNB and through energy-efficiency certificates. At the end of 2018, about 16 percent of the company's total loan portfolio accounted for such sustainable buildings. Although financing sustainable real estate is still not the main market for the company compared to the total loan-book, it aims at increasing this share to 20 percent by 2020. The company's covered pool claims are mainly distributed throughout Germany, France and the Netherlands, countries with fairly good environmental and social minimum standards. Hence, risks from Berlin Hyp's financing activities appear moderately low. Moreover, for managing its social and environmental risks stemming from loan origination, Berlin Hyp applies comprehensive guidelines concerning its real estate financing segment. Guidelines include client-related stipulations in various environmental and social areas, from resource efficiency, pollution, biodiversity aspects and climate change impacts to human and labour rights, community matters such as noise and traffic, and regarding vulnerable population groups. Although BerlinHyp is pioneering the sector with such sophisticated guidelines, there is room for improvement for the institute to establish a more elaborated system for compliance in that area. With regard to its own (liquidity) investment portfolio, the bank uses a set of exclusion criteria concerning controversial business sectors and practices. These are followed trough with an appropriate management approach. Since the company does not engage in retail finance and deals with professional real estate developers only, customer- related risks appear manageable. However, only initial steps are taken on responsible sales practices as well as towards the treatment of clients with debt repayment problems. A policy covering workplace security is in place and there is no evidence on redundancies over the last years. Various working time models ensure adequate work-life balance of its employees and the company addressed health and safety issues with a company-wide management system, which covers also aspects of psychological well-being. With regard to its governance processes, Berlin Hyp applies policies covering various important compliance issues, like corruption, insider trading and money laundering, antitrust, gifts and favors. Necessary procedures to ensure application of the rules are present through employee trainings, compliance risk assessments and whistleblowing procedures. Berlin Hyp is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Landesbank Berlin Holding, ultimately possessed by Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe, the umbrella organisation of German savings banks. The company's governance structure allows for an appropriate separation of managerial and supervisory functions with the entirety of members of the board qualifying as independent, including the board's chairman Mr Helmut Schleweis (as at July 11, 2019). Furthermore, the board has established committees concerning audit, nomination and remuneration, all composed of likewise independent members. Compensation for the executive management team is reported for each individual, split up according to fixed and variable amounts as well as long-term incentives. Regarding the company’s governance of sustainability, a committee dedicated to sustainability appears to be missing. In addition, ESG criteria apparently are not incorporated into the banks' executive remuneration scheme. Berlin Hyp's code of conduct covers all relevant aspects of business ethics, such as corruption, insider trading, conflicts of interest, antitrust, gifts and favors, of which some are reflected on in more detail. Application of the rules is ensured by employee trainings, compliance risk assessments and adequate whistleblowing procedures. ESG Corporate Rating / Last Modification: 2019-07-12 © ISS ESG,Berlin Hyp AG Methodology - Overview The ESG Corporate Rating methodology was originally developed by Institutional Shareholder Services Germany (formerly oekom research) and has been consistently updated for more than 25 years. ESG Corporate Rating - The ESG Corporate Rating universe, which is currently expanding from more than 8,000 corporate issuers to a targeted 10,000 issuers in 2020, covers important national and international indices as well as additional companies from sectors with direct links to sustainability and the most important bond issuers that are not publicly listed companies. The assessment of a company's social & governance and environmental performance is based on approximately 100 environmental, social and governance indicators per sector, selected from a pool of 800+ proprietary indicators. All indicators are evaluated independently based on clearly defined performance expectations and the results are aggregated, taking into account each indicator’s and each topic’s materiality-oriented weight, to yield an overall score (rating). If no relevant or up-to-date company information with regard to a certain indicator is available, and no assumptions can be made based on predefined standards and expertise, e.g. known and already classified country standards, the indicator is assessed with a D-. In order to obtain a comprehensive and balanced picture of each company, our analysts assess relevant information reported or directly provided by the company as well as information from reputable independent sources. In addition, our analysts actively seek a dialogue with the assessed companies during the rating process and companies are regularly given the opportunity to comment on the results and provide additional information. Analyst Opinion - Qualitative summary and explanation of the central rating results in three dimensions: (1) Opportunities - assessment of the quality and the current and future share of sales of a company’s products and services, which positively or negatively contribute to the management of principal sustainability challenges. (2) Risks - summary assessment of how proactively and successfully the company addresses specific sustainability challenges found in its business activity and value chain, thus reducing its individual risks, in particular regarding its sector’s key issues. (3) Governance - overview of the company’s governance structures and measures as well as of the quality and efficacy of policies regarding its ethical business conduct. Controversial Business Practices - The assessment of companies' sustainability performance in the ESG Corporate Rating is informed by a systematic and comprehensive evaluation of companies' ability to prevent and mitigate ESG controversies. ISS ESG conducts research and analysis on corporate involvement in verified or alleged failures to respect recognized standards for responsible business conduct through Norm- Based Research. Norm-Based Research is based on authoritative standards for responsible business conduct such as the UN Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and the Sustainable Development Goals. As a stress-test of corporate disclosure, Norm-Based Research assesses the following: - Companies' ability to address grievances and remediate negative impacts - Degree of verification of allegations and claims - Severity of impact on people and the environment, and systematic or systemic nature of malpractices Severity of impact is categorized as Potential, Moderate, Severe, Very severe. This informs the ESG Corporate Rating. Decile Rank - The Decile Rank indicates in which decile (tenth part of total) the individual Corporate Rating ranks within its industry from 1 (best – company’s rating is in the first decile within its industry) to 10 (lowest – company’s rating is in the tenth decile within its industry). The Decile Rank is determined based on the underlying numerical score of the rating. If the total number of companies within an industry cannot be evenly divided by ten, the surplus company ratings are distributed from the top (1 decile) to the bottom. If there are Corporate Ratings with identical absolute scores that span a division in decile ranks, all ratings with an equal decile score are classified in the higher decile, resulting in a smaller number of Corporate Ratings in the decile below. Distribution of Ratings - Overview of the distribution of the ratings of all companies from the respective industry that are included in the ESG Corporate Rating universe (company portrayed in this report: dark blue). ESG Corporate Rating / Last Modification: 2019-07-12 © ISS ESG,Berlin Hyp AG Methodology - Overview Industry Leaders - List (in alphabetical order) of the top three companies in an industry from the ESG Corporate Rating universe at the time of generation of this report. Key Issue Performance - Overview of the company's performance with regard to the key social and environmental issues in the industry, compared to the industry average. Major Shareholders & Ownership Summary - Overview of the company's major shareholders at the time of generation of this report. All data as well as the categorisation system for the investor types is based on information from S&P Capital IQ. Rating History - Development of the company's rating over time and comparison to the average rating in the industry. Rating Scale - Companies are rated on a twelve-point scale from A+ to D-: A+: the company shows excellent performance. D-: the company shows poor performance (or fails to demonstrate any commitment to appropriately address the topic). Overview of the range of scores achieved in the industry (light blue) and indication of the grade of the company evaluated in this report (dark blue). Sources of Information - A selection of sources used for this report is illustrated in the annex. Status & Prime Threshold - Companies are categorized as Prime if they achieve/exceed the sustainability performance requirements (Prime threshold) defined by ISS ESG for a specific industry (absolute best-in-class approach) in the ESG Corporate Rating. Prime companies are sustainability leaders in their industry and are better positioned to cope with material ESG challenges and risks, as well as to seize opportunities, than their Not Prime peers. The financial materiality of the Prime Status has been confirmed by performance studies, showing a continuous outperformance of the Prime portfolio when compared to conventional indices over more than 14 years. Industry Classification - The social and environmental impacts of industries differ. Therefore, based on its relevance, each industry analyzed is classified in a Sustainability Matrix. Depending on this classification, the two dimensions of the ESG Corporate Rating, the Social Rating and the Environmental Rating, are weighted and the sector- specific minimum requirements for the ISS ESG Prime Status (Prime threshold) are defined (absolute best-in-class approach). Social & Governance Relevance Environmental Relevance P rime Threshold C B- C + ESG Corporate Rating / Last Modification: 2019-07-12 © ISS ESG,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 1 9 o f 2 0 ANNEX 2 : Methodology ISS ESG Green Bond KPIs The ISS ESG Green Bond KPIs serves as a structure for evaluating the sustainability quality – i.e. the social and environmental added value – of the use of proceeds of Berlin Hyp’s Green Bond. It comprises firstly the definition of the use of proceeds category offer ing added social and/or environmental value, and secondly the specific sustainability criteria by means of which this added value and therefore the sustainability performance of the assets can be clearly identified and described. The sustainability criter ia are complemented by specific indicators, which enable quantitative measurement of the sustainability performance of the assets and which can also be used for reporting. To review the KPIs used in this SPO, please contact Federico Pezzolato (details below ) who will send them directly to you. Asset evaluation methodology ISS ESG evaluates whether the assets included in the asset pool match the eligible project category and criteria listed in the Green Bond KPIs. All percentages refer to the amount of assets within one category (e.g. wind power). Additionally, the assessment “no or limited information is available” either indicates that no information was made available to I SS ESG or that the information provided did not fulfil the requirements of the ISS ESG Green Bond KPIs . The evaluation was carried out using information and documents provided to ISS ESG on a confidential basis by Berlin Hyp (e.g. Due Diligence Reports). F urther, national legislation and standards, depending on the asset location, were drawn on to complement the information provided by the issuer. Assessment of the contribution and association to the SDG The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were endo rsed in September 2015 by the United Nations and provide a benchmark for key opportunities and challenges toward a more sustainable future . Using a proprietary method, ISS ESG identifies the extent to which Berlin Hyp’s Green Bond contributes to related SD Gs and has a positive association with their respective sub - targets. The c ontribution assessment is displayed at the asset category level (see page 4 of this SPO).,S E C O N D P A R T Y O P I N I O N Su sta in ab il ity Q u al ity o f th e Gr e en Bon d A s s et Poo l I S S C O R P O R A T E S O L U T I O N S . C O M / E S G 2 0 o f 2 0 About ISS ESG SPO ISS ESG is one of the world’s leading rating agencies in the field of sustainable investment. The agency analyses companies and countries regarding their environmental and social performance. As part of our Sustainable ( Green & Social) Bo nd Services, we provide support for companies and institutions issuing sustainable bonds, advise them on the selection of categories of projects to be financed and help them to define ambitious criteria. We assess alignment with external principles (e.g. the ICMA Green / Social Bond Principles ), analyse the sustainability quality of the assets and review the sustainability performance of the issuer themselves. Following these three steps, we draw up an independent SPO so that investors are as well informed as possible about the q uality of the bond / loan from a sustainability perspective . Learn more: https://www.isscorporatesolutions.com/solutions/esg - solutions/green - bond - services/ F or Information about SPO services , and this Green Bond , contact: Federico Pezzolato Federico.Pezzolato@isscorporatesolutions.com SPO@isscorporatesolutions.com + 44.20.3192.57 60