© Sustain alytics 2019 Second - Party Opinion CABEI Green Bond Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the CABEI Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful , and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018. This assess ment is based on the following: The eligible categor ies for the use of proceeds - (i) S ustainable L and U se, ( ii) R enewable E nergy, (i ii ) Sustainable W ater M anagement and ( i v ) Clean T ransport - align with those recognized by t he Green Bo nd Pri nciples 2018 . Sustainalytics considers the range of eligible projects will lead to positive environmental impacts and will advance a number of key UN Sustainable Development Goals . CABEI will establish a Multidiscipl inary Green Bond Working Group responsible for the evaluation and selection of Eligible Green Projects which will include cross departmental representatives . CABEI has developed detailed internal guidelines for project selection that address environmental and social risk m anagement which Sustainalytics considers in line with market best practice. CABEI will take specific measures to track the invested amounts used, and loans granted. Pe nding allocation, the net proceeds will be ma naged within the Bank’s treasury liquidity portfolio, in cash or other liquid instruments. This is in line with market practice . CABEI intends to report on the allocation of bond proceeds on an annual basis , and for the duration of the g reen b ond(s) . The impact reporting will include relevant metrics. These reports will be made publicly available to all stakeholders. Sustainalytics views CABEI’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Evaluation date September 20 19 Issuer Locatio n Central America Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ ................ 10 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Ankita Shukla (New York) Project Manager ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com (+1) 617 60 3 3329 Daniel Sanchez (Toronto) Project Support Daniel.sanchez@sustainalytics.com (+1) 647 264 6644 Paramjot Kaur (New York) Client Relations susfinance.americas@sustainalytics.com +1 646 518 9623,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 2 Introduction The Central American Bank for Economic Integration (“CABEI” , the “Bank”, or the “Issuer”) is a multilateral development financial institution composed of 14 countries. It was established in 1960 by Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras , Nicaragua and Costa Rica as founding members and later joined b y Panama, the Dominican Republic and Belize as non - founding regional members and Mexico, Colombia, Argentina, Taiwan, Spain and Cuba as non - regional members. CABEI has developed the CABEI Green Bond Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it intends to i ssue g reen b ond s and use the proceeds to finance/refinance , in whole or in part, existing and future projects that contribute to the transition to a low - carbon economy and have positive environmental impact . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in f o ur areas: 1. Sustainable Land Use 2. Renewable Energy 3. Sustainable Water Management 4. Clean Transport CABEI engaged Sustainalytics to review the CABEI Green Bond Framework , dated September 24 , 2019 , and provide a second - party opinion on the F ramework ’s environmen tal credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) . 1 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 2 As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of CABEI ’s management team to unde rstand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as the management of proceeds and reporti ng aspects of CABEI’s G reen B ond Framework . Sustainalytics also reviewed a subset of CABEI’s sample eligible project list, relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the CABEI Green Bond Framew ork and should be read in conjunction with th at F ramework. 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Mark et Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - soci al - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ 2 The Green Bond Fr amework is available on CABEI’s website at: https://www.bcie.org/en/investor - relations/green - bank/ .,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 3 Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opini on on the CABEI Green Bond Framework Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the CABEI Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of the F ramework : • Use of Proceeds: - The eligible use of proceeds categories - (i) S ustainable L and U se, (ii) R enewable E nergy, (i ii ) Sustainable W ater M anagement and ( i v) Clean T ransport - are recognized as impactful categories by the GBP 2018. - C ABEI intends to finance projects under the Sustainable L and Use category that have the potential to deliver significant environmental benefits with the following eligibility criteria : ▪ A cquisition, maintenance and sustainable management of forests certified with the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification systems ( PEFC) , or equivalent certification schemes (Appendix 1 provides an overview of such schemes) . In addition , expenditures will be related to the restorat ion and conservation of existing native forests , fo re s t plan tation s , and preservation and extension of indigenous resource rights. ▪ For agriculture, the Bank intends to finance projects that uphold soil health through management practices including sustaina ble water, nutrient and vegetation application techniques and practic es that are compatible with low - carbon agriculture methods (no tillage, use of diverse cover crops, no or minimal application of pesticides or synthetic fertilizers, multiple crop rotatio n and managed grazing). • Eligible s ustainable farming projects will b e certified against recognized third - party standards and certification s chemes , such as UTZ, Rainforest Alliance, and GLOBALG.A.P . • Accepted third - party certifications for a groforestry are FSC and Rainforest Alliance, and for a groecology are BSC - OEKO, BIOLATINA, Rainforest Alliance and Intercultural Federation of Organic Agriculture (IFOAM ) . The eligible c ertification schemes have been assessed in Appendix 2 . • For integrated production syst ems, CABEI will focus on agrosilvoforestry systems , a sustainable land - use approach which combines crop - forestry - livestock, while excluding beef and palm oil production . Sustainalytics also notes that certain limitations 3 , 4 , 5 are to be considered with agro silvo forestry systems, including its implementation difficulties, potential for counteracting methane emissions from livestock production , and its capacity to act as a net carbon sink if improperly managed. ▪ CABEI also intends to support the expansion of Na tionally Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA) projects that focus on coffee and coc o a farmers 3 Springer, “ Silvopasture: a sustainable livestock production system ”, at : https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10457 - 019 - 00366 - 8 4 Instituto Nacional de Investgacion, “ Silvopasture in the Caatinga biome of Brazil - A review of its ecology, management, and development opportunities ”, at : http://revistas.inia.es/index.php/fs/article/view/12267/4006 5 IPCC, Land - Climate Interactions , at : https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploa ds/2019/08/2c. - Chapter - 2_FINAL.pdf,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 4 and mill operators that adopt low - carbon technologies and practices . Refer to Section 3 for further discussion of the impact of NAMA projects. 6 - Within the are a o f R enewable E nergy, Sustainalytics believes that inclusion of thresholds for the following projects strengthens the Framework : ▪ Geothermal energy with direct emissions threshold of <100g CO 2 /kWh ; ▪ Bioenergy w ith 80% GHG emission reduction compared to fossil fuels and sourced from sustainable feedstock ; 7 ▪ Small run - of - river hydro plants ( < 25 MW), as well as for the maintenance , refurbishment or repowering of existing hydro facilities ; and ▪ Investments in new transmission lines with >85% of energy dedicated in th e distribution and transmission of renewable energy. - CABEI’s Sustainable Water Management category includes funding for the construction of desalinat ion plants , flood defenses, installation or upgrade of water efficient irrigation systems, water reuse plan ts and other water treatment facilities to provide drinking w ater . Sustainalytics views positively such investments, especially considering that such projects will be powered by eligible renewable energy projects and will serve water - stressed regions withi n Central America . - Within the Clean Transport category, CABEI intends to support both private and public transport i nclud ing electric vehicles /buses and hybrid and fuel cell vehicles with an emission threshold of < 75 gCO2/p - k m which Sustainalytics views po sitively. • Project Evaluation and Selection: - CABEI intends to establish a Multidisciplinary Green Bond Working Group which will be responsible for the evaluation and selection of the Eligible Green Projects. Eligible projects should comply with t he criteri a stated in the Use of Proceeds section of th e Framework , CABEI’s Environmental and Social Policy and CABEI ’s exclusions list 8 . Membership will include the Finance Department , the Environmental and Social Sustainable Office, in addition to public and priva te sector stakeholders. - CABEI has developed detailed internal guidelines for project selection that address environmental and social risk management including the development of CABEI’s System for Identification, Evaluation and Mitigation of Environm ental and Social Risks , and CABEI’s alignment with standards set by the IFC, the Equator Principles, and the World Bank Group Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines (EHS Guidelines) . Furthermore, CABEI is a member of the International Development Fin ance Club (IDFC) and as such is committed to track ing and report ing their green finance flows as per IDFC’s green finance tracking methodology . CABEI’s risk mitigation processes are in line with market best practice. See further information on CABEI’s proc esses address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects in Section 2. • Management of Proceeds: - Pending allocation, net proceeds for the g reen b ond s will be managed within CABEI’s treasury liquidity portfolio, in cash or other liquid ins truments. CABEI intends to disburse investments within three years of the issuance of the g reen b ond for new financing. Sustainalytics considers this to be in line wit h market practice . • R eporting: - CABEI intends to report on the allocation and impact of the bond’s use of proceeds on a yearly basis for the duration of the g reen b ond (s) on CABEI’s website. 9 Allocation reporting will include amount of proceeds allocated per category, percentage of financing or refinancing and the total amount of unallocated proceeds, along with a 6 NAMA refer to any action that reduces greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries and prepared under the umbre lla of a national governmental initiative. 7 Sustainalytics notes that CABEI will ensure that bioenergy comes from sources that do not deplete existing terrestrial carbon pools or have negative impacts on biodiversity, including the exclusion of burning of peat. Feedstock supply will also be limited to agricultural or forestry residues and will not compete with food production. 8 Sustainalytics notes that CABEI has strengthen ed the Framework with an exclusion criteria , that prevent the proceeds from being directed to projects dedicated to the production of fossil fuels and supporting infrastructure, as well as for power generation with more than 15% of fossil fuel backup or hybrid. 9 Reports available on CABEI’s websit e at: https://www.bcie.org/en/investor - relations/green - bank/ .,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 5 brief description of select projects. Impact reporting, where feasible , will include relevant quantitative indicators , as already determined by the Development Impact Evaluation System (SEID for its acronym in Spanish) , which identif ies impacts on the development of the financed operation s . Sustainalytics views CABEI’s allocation a nd impact reporting aligned with market practice. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determined that the CABEI G reen B ond Framewo rk aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 3 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of the Issuer Contribution of framework to issuer’s sustainability strategy T he use of proceeds categories described by the Framework align s with CABEI’s overall strategy which integrates Sustainable Development in to its mission to promote economic integration and social development of the Centr al American region. CABEI’s 2015 - 2019 Institutional Strategy incorporates environmental sustainability as a transversal axis , to be used across the Bank’s operations, aiming to guarantee that “the Bank’s efforts focusing on social development, competitiven ess and regional integration are environmentally viable i n the medium and long term.” 10 Furthermore, CABEI has defined an “Environmental and Social Policy” with three principles: Adoption of Best International Practices, Financing for Sustainable Developmen t and Transparency, and Consultation and Citizen Participation”. This policy is executed through: • CABEI’s Environmental and Social Strategy, and • CABEI’s Environmental and Social Risk Management System, composed of: (i) the System for Identification, Evalua tion and Mitigation of Environmental and Social Risks (SIEMAS for its acronym in Spanish), and (ii) the Environmental and Social Corporate Responsibility System (SASC for its acronym in Spanish) , further discussed below. A s outlined in CABEI’s latest Envi ronmental and Social Strategy report , the Board of Governors issued a declaration to promote and support actions aligned with the Paris Agreement which aims to limit the increase in global average temperature to well below 2 ̊C, and CABEI became an observer as an intergovernmental organization of the UNFCCC. 11 In 2018 CABEI also established the Office of Environmental and Social Sustainability (OFAS for its acronym in Sp anish) to support compliance with international st andards on the Bank’s operations in respect to environmental, social and climate issues. 12 Additionally, the Bank obtained ISO 14001:2015 certification on its Environmental Management System (EMS) for the administrative and operational activities of its he adquarters in Honduras in July 2019, with the intention of rolling out best practices across its operations in the region. In i ts role a s part of the financial arm of the Central American Integration System (SICA for its acronym in Spanish ), the Bank has b een involved in 19 regional initiatives which encompass: climate change, economic integration, social integration and democrati c security. Earlier this year , CABEI further demonstrated its commitment to a low - carbon future when the Bank issued its Carbon Zero Statement which further support initiatives that foster climate change mitigation and prevention; strengthen low - carbon economies, climate change resilient societies, sustainable food production ; and the adoption of clean e nergy and energy efficiency. 13 Based on CABEI’s initiatives, Sustainalytics views the Bank ’s sustainability strategy positively and is of the opinion that the Bank is well - positioned to issue g reen b ond s . 10 CABEI, “CABEI 2015 - 2019 Institutional Strategy”, at: https://www.bcie.org/fileadmin/bcie/english/files/publications/strategy/ cabei_2015 - 2019_institutional_strategy_english.pdf . 11 CABEI, “Política Ambiental y Social del Banco Centroameric ano de Integración Económica”, at: https://www.bcie.org/novedades/publicaciones/?tx_sffilecollectiongallery_pifilecollectiongallery%5BgalleryUID%5D=33&tx_sffile collectiongallery_pifilec ollectiongallery%5Baction%5D=list&tx_sffilecollectiongallery_pifilecollectiongallery%5Bcontroller%5D=Galle ry&cHash=6019ce52d4fb3593239233c383d c7830 . 12 CABEI, “Annual Report”, at: https://www.bcie.org/fileadmin/bcie/english/files/publication s /annual_reports/CABEI - AnnualReport - 2018.pdf . 13 CABEI, “The LIX CABEI Board of Governors meeting ends with new commitment to zero carbon emissions and access to information” , at: https://www.bcie.org/en/news/latest - news/article/the - lix - cabei - board - of - governors - meeting - ends - with - new - commitments - to - zero - carbon - emissions - and - ac/ .,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 6 Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated wit h the projects Sustainalytics is of the opinion that although eligible projects to be financed and refinanced by the g reen b ond are anticipated to deliver overall environmental benefits, as with any project there may be associated environmental and social risks. Based on the use of proceed categories , some of the most significant risks include environmental impact from projects suc h as air, water, or soil pollution and negative impacts on local communities. To mitigate these risks, CABEI is following inter national best practices and has policies and procedures in place to help assess and address various risks. CABEI has been implem enting the SEID which measures the development impact of the Bank’s projects. In its current iteration , SEID 2.0 is applied acr oss the Evaluation Cycle, which carries out project evaluations ex - ante, half term and until ex - post, and its methodology is upda ted every two years by the Environmental and Social Sustainability Office ( Spanish : Oficina de Sostenibilidad Ambiental y Socia l ) and the Evaluation Office (ODE for its acronym in Spanish ). 14 CABEI measures the impact of its operations on the region’s development through the CABEI Development Impact Index (I - BCIE for its acronym in Spanish ). 15 While SEID controls for the advancement of the development agenda, SIEMAS addresses risks and negative environmental and social events originating from the Banks projects and activities. The Environmental and Social Sustainability Office is also responsible for oversee ing the implementation of SIEMAS, as well as their alignment with the performance standar ds set by the IFC, the Equator Principles 16 , and the World Bank Group Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines (EHS Guidelines) 17 as well as national legislation in each country. 18 SIEMAS guar antees that relevant measures for mitigation are incorporated i nto environmental and social action plans. It also established the Mechanism of Environmental and Social Complaints (Spanish: Mecanismo de Denuncias Ambientales y Sociales) that allows the gene ral public to report to the Bank of any potential environmental or social risks linked to the operations financed by CABEI . 18 In its current form, SIEMAS 3.0 defines the process of analysing environmental an d social risks through CABEI’s project cycle including categories of each intervention and the ability of clients to manage them and it divides them in three categories: i. Category A: Projects with potential risks or significant adverse environmental and soc ial impact that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. ii. Category B: Projects with potential risks or limited adverse environmental and social impacts that are scarce and could be managed with mitigation measures. iii. Category C: Projects that involve minim al or no adverse environmental or social risks or impacts. 19 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that CABEI ́s internal processes and mechanisms to mitigate risks associated with its financing activities ensure that the Bank is well - positioned to address comm on environmental and social risks and are in line with market best practice. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds All four use of proceeds categories are recognized as impactful by GBP. Sustainalytics has focused on three below where the i mpact is spe cifically relevant in the local context. The importance of CABE I financing NAMA projects With many countries in the region being ma jor coffee and cocoa producers, NAMA projects have the potential to provide significant positive environmental impacts. As a n example, in Costa Rica (14 th largest coffee producer) coffee contributes nearly 10% of the country’s total GHG emissions. 20 Working to reduce its GHG 14 CABEI, “Manual del Sistema de Evaluación de Impacto en el Desarrollo (SEID 2.0, Versión 1).” 15 The CABEI development impact index (I - CABEI) was adapted for Central America and the Bank from the tool known as GPR of Germany’s Deutsche Investitions - und Entwicklungsgesell schaft (DEG). 16 The Equator Principles are an international framework to identify and manage environmental and social risks. https://equator - principles.com/about/ . 17 The General EHS Guidelines contain information on cross - cutting environmental, health, and safety issues potentially applicable to all industry sectors. https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/sustainability - at - ifc/policies - standards/ehs - guidelines . 18 CABEI, “Manual de Sistemas de Identificación, Evaluación, y Mitigación de los Riesgos Ambientale s y Sociales (SIEMAS 3.0 ) , Versión 4”. 19 CABEI, “Environmental Dimension”, at: https://www.bcie.org/en/about - us/social - respo nsibility/environmental - dimension/ 20 Reuters, “Costa Rica coffee farmers brew up a carbon neutral future”, at: https://www.reuters.com/art icle/us - costa - rica - coffee - carbonneutral/costa - rica - coffee - farmers - brew - up - a - carbon - neutral - future - idUSKCN1IN04G .,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 7 emissions, Costa Rica has adopted a plan to achieve a zero net emissions economy by 2050, in line with th e objectives of the Paris Climate Change Agreement. 21 Costa Rica became the first country to adopt a NA MA plan to help coffee producers cut emissions , and it had the fi r st cooperative to be certified as carbon - neutral coffee. As the program me keep s expandin g in the country, it is expected that by the end of 2019 the program me will cover 6,000 coffee produce rs that will have adopted sustainable farming methods, covering 25,000 hectares of land and cutting emissions by a total of 52,000 tones. 22 T he program me i s carried out by rolling out NAMA management models which are a key element to increasing carbon sinks, reduc ing emissions of nitrous oxide and methane, and combining climate adaptation practices. CABEI has presented a Concept Note for a NAMA p roject for coffee in Honduras to the Green Climate Fund which is currently being reviewed as of writing. In Honduras, coffee related GHG emissions represent 2.4% of national emissions. With this project, they are expected to incorporate 4,000 coffee producers and 80 mills by 2023 and reduce 0.5% of GHG emissions compared to 2015 levels. The Bank expects to repl icate this concept in the region. Sustainalytics believes that the CABEI G reen B ond Framework will promote the adoption of sustainable agricultural practices a nd advance national GHG emission reductions targets on . The importance of sustainable w ater m anagement in water - stressed areas The Framework includes financing for sustainable water management which has the potential to have significant positive enviro nm ental impacts in water - stressed areas . Central America has been classified as a region that is highly exposed to weather events such as hurricanes, dr o ughts , flooding, and el Niño effect by the World Bank , and CABEI is well positioned to make an impact thr ough its financing operation . 23 In 2016, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), noted that 33% of the population is living in what it has called the Central American Dry Corridor (CADC), which is a tropical dry forest region on the Pacific side of Cen tral America, were in need of humanitar ian assistance because of food shortages and loss of production due to lack of water. 24 The corridor , which stretches from southern Mexico to Panama, has seen a rise in severe droughts since 2009 due to changes in rain fall patterns. This makes guaranteeing water storage and sustainability one of the most important issues to address as growing urbanization in the region increases demand. A report by the World Bank estimates that in the next generation 70% of the populati on will live in cities compared to the current figure of 59%. 23 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that use of proceeds from th e green bond (s) will promote better water management practices and infrastructure, that will help make these communities more resilient to changing weather patterns in the region. The importance of r enewable e nergy in Central America The Framework includes financing for several renewable energy projects, primarily hydropower. Deployme nt of renewable energy technology in Central America has the potential for significant positive environmental impacts. With all founding and non - founding regional countries as signatories to the Paris Agreement, the governments of the region have insisted on the need to achieve a reduction in global GHG emissions. 25 Home to over 40 million people, there are still approximately seven million people in Central America with no or limited access to basic electricity. 26 As governments keep developing infrastructur e to provide electricity to meet growing consumer demand , particularly in cities , continued investment in energy projects will be necessary to provide clean and reliable ener gy . CABEI has communicated that over 84% of the Bank’s approved projects in the en ergy sector have been for renewable energy projects and electric infrastructure (transmission and distribution projects, including electrification projects) , reaching 6,049 M W or almost 30% of installed capacity of the members of the Central American Integ ration System (SICA for its acronyms in Spanish) and e nsuing a GHG emission reduction of 6.7 tons as of 2017. 27 Furthermore, i n 2015 IREN A created the Clean Energy Corridor of Central America (CECCA) to promote deployment and cross - border trade of 21 UNFCCC, “Costa Rica Commits to Fully Decarbonize by 2050”, at: https://unfccc.int/news/costa - rica - commits - to - fully - decarbonize - b y - 2050 . 22 GIZ, “Climate - friends coffee from Costa Rica”, at: https://www.giz.de/en/workingwithgiz/58288.html 23 Wo rld Bank, “Estudio de la urbanización en Centroamérica: Oportunidades de una Centroamérica urbana”, at: http://documentos.bancomundial.org/curated/es/811611517808775995/ pdf/Central - America - urbanization - review - making - cities - work - for - Central - America.pdf . 24 FAO, “Chronology of the Dry Corridor: The impetus for resilience in Central America”, at: http://www.fao.org/in - action/agronoticias/detail/en/c/1024539/ . 25 CEPAL, “Climate Cha nge in Central America”, at: https://repositorio.cepal.org/bitstream/handle/11362/39150/7/S1800827_en.pdf . 26 IRENA, “Renewable Energy Efforts Scaled - Up in Central America”, at: https://www.irena.org/newsroom/articles/2017/Jul/Renewable - Energy - Efforts - Scaled - Up - in - Central - America . 27 GHG emission red uction account s for projects in operation as of 2017.,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 8 renewable power in Central America and it was endorsed by the region ́s energy ministers. 28 Panama, whose National Energy Plan 2015 - 2050 a ims to obt ain 70% of the country’s energy supply from renewables by 2050 29 , was chosen as a pilot country to identify capacity bui lding and technical advisory needs to strengthen the initiatives in the region. Alignment with/contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Deve lopment Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 20 30. This G reen B ond advances the following SDG goals and targets: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG T arget Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. Sustai nable Land Use 15. Life on Land 2. Zero Hunger 15.2 By 2020, promote the implementation of sustainable management of al l types of forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded forests and substantially increase afforestation and reforestation glo bally. 2.3 By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small - scale food producers, in particular women, indigeno us peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, other productive resou rces and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities for value addition and non - farm employment Sustainable Water Management 6. Clean Water and Sanitation 6.1 By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and affordabl e drinking water for all. 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water - use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity. Clean Transport 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with special attenti on to the needs of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and older pers ons. 28 IRENA, “Clean Energy Corridor of Ce ntral America (CECCA) Strategy”, at : https://www.irena.org/clea nenergycorridors/Clean - Energy - Corridor - of - Central - America . 29 IRENA, “Evaluación del Estado de Preparación de las energías Renovables: Panamá”, at: https://www.irena.org/publications/2018/May/Renewables - Readiness - Assessment - Panama - ES .,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 9 Conclusion The Central American Bank for Economic Integration ( CABEI ) has developed the CABEI Green Bond Framework to finance and/or refi nance E ligible G reen P rojects related to (i) Sustainable Land Use, (ii) Renewable Energy, (i ii ) Sustainable Water Management and ( i v ) Clean Transport . The use of proceeds, which will be selected from CABEI’s loan portfolio will contribute to the developmen t of renewable energy, reduction of GHG emissions, conservation of biodiversity, and a shift tow ard more sustainable practices in agriculture and water management . Sustainalytics believes that CABEI’s Framework is aligned with the Bank’s Sustainable Develo pment strategy and that the environmental and social use of proceeds categories will advance a n umber of key SDGs . By adhering to strong eligibility criteria, demonstrating a structured and transparent project selection process which ensures the mitigation of environmental and social risks, committing to manage proceeds in alignment with market pract ices and reporting on allocation and relevant quantitative indicators , Sustainalytics considers that the CABEI Green Bond Framework is robust , credible and in a lignment with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018 .,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 10 Appendices Appendix 1: Overview and Analysis of FSC and PEFC Certifications FSC and PEFC are both based on rigorous standards and on a multi - stakeho lder structure. Both organizations are in line with international norms such as the International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions, the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), an d the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fa una and Flora (CITES). In addition to compliance with laws in the country of certification, both schemes have a set of minimum requirements that companies are required to meet to obtai n and maintain certifications. These requirements include compliance wit h standards around sustainable management of forests, management of environmental impact of operations, preservation of biodiversity, management of socio - economic and community relatio ns, and sourcing of sustainable wood (chain of custody). Furthermore, bo th FSC and PEFC require external annual audits to ensure compliance and achieve and maintain certification. Despite these similarities, PEFC has faced certain criticisms from civil soc iety actors. These are highlighted below: (i) Type of organization: Since the FSC is an international labelling and certification system, it sets its own global standards. The PEFC, in contrast, is not a standard setter, but a mutual recognition scheme. The PEFC sets sustainability benchmarks according to international norms and endorses national certification schemes that comply with these benchmarks. A common criticism of this model is that it allows for more flexibility in the interpretation of internation al PEFC benchmarks as per regional, cultural, and socio - economic context , and results in the endorsement of less rigorous national certification schemes. However, the process for being endorsed by the PEFC is thorough; any national certification system see king to obtain PEFC endorsement must submit to a comprehensive assessmen t process, including independent evaluation and public consultation. This evaluation of compliance with international PEFC benchmarks is carried out by independent, accredited certific ation organizations. (ii) Indigenous People’s Rights : FSC and PEFC both iden tify indigenous rights as an important standard in forest management. Both certification schemes require that forest management activities consider and do not infringe on indigenous pe ople’s rights, and the activities are carried out using frameworks ensur ing their free and informed consent. A criticism of PEFC is that it requires only engagement with indigenous people in forest management decisions, while the FSC provides performance - o riented targets, and requires forest managers operating on indigenous la nds to obtain indigenous people’s consent through binding agreements. (iii) Sourcing wood from non - certified sources : Both FSC and the PEFC have established standards around sourcing wood f rom non - certified and controversial sources. FSC’s standards direct fore st managers to avoid wood harvested in violation of traditional and civil rights. A criticism of the comparable PEFC standard is that it limits identification of controversially source d wood to situations where the local legislation is violated. However, P EFC standards explicitly reference the violation of local, national, and international legislation with regards to worker’s and indigenous people’s rights as being a controversial sour ce of wood.,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 11 Appendix 2 : Certifications for Sustainable Far ming, Agroforestry and Agroecology BSC OEKO – GARANTIE (BSC OEKO) BIO LATINA Rainforest Alliance Background BSC OEKO is a German certification, administered and overseen by the European Organic Certifiers Council (EOCC). The BSC OEKO certification serv es the organic agriculture industry, including farmers, processors, packers, importers, exporters and warehousin g companies. BIO LATINA is a Latin American certifying body for Agriculture. The BIO LATINA certification is accredited with ISO 65 and incorp orates environmental, social, farm management and framing practices considerations. BIO LATINA is a member of IF OAM and CERTIBIONET. The Rainforest Alliance Seal is a global certification system for Agriculture, Forestry and Tourism. The Rainforest Allian ce certification indicates compliance with the organization’s standards for environmental, social and economic s ustainability. Rainforest Alliance merged with UTZ in January 2018. Clear positive impact Promoting sustainable practices in agriculture. Pr omoting sustainable practices in agriculture. Promoting sustainable practices in agriculture, forestry and tour ism. Minimum standards BCS OEKO GARANTIE is mainly established by Regulation 834/2007 of the European Union. In addition, control bodies and authorities develop their own tools to reach the most performant controls. BIO LATINA has established minimum stipulations that cover regulatory compliance, rules of organic production or service provisions, and environmental management plans. Rainforest alliance establishes a minimum threshold for impact through critical criteria and requires farmers to go beyond by demonstrating improved sustainability on 14 continuous improvement criteria. Scope of certification or programme Certifications in all area s of organic production, for farmers, processors, packagers, importers, exporters and wareh ouses. With a wide scope for certification, this is a sample of some the focus areas: • Inspection and certification to organic production, handling operation and ma rketing • Inspection and certification to organic fiber production, flowers and cosmetic • Inspection of UTZ Certified • Inspection and certification of Good Agriculture Practice regarding to the GLOBALGAP - standard Rainforest alliance addresses key risks su ch as hum an rights, child labour, pesticide use and biodiversity use through its criteria. Verification of standards and risk mitigation Certified entities undergo third party verification to ensure compliance with criteria and continuous improvement. Ce rtified e ntities undergo third party verification to ensure compliance with criteria and continuous improvement. Certified entities undergo third party verification to ensure compliance with criteria and continuous improvement. Third party expertise and multi - stakeholder process Standard setting for Agriculture, Feed and Food follows legal requirements of the Standard setting follows EU Regulation and the Japanese Agricultural Organic Standard (JAS) Standard setti ng is aligned with the ISEAL Standard Setting Code.,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 12 aforementioned standards and regulations Performance Display Qualitative considerations Global recognition across 70 countries around the world. There are 450,000 BSC OEKO certified operators. Rigurous on the enforcement of minimum sta ndards and strong governance over the implementation of social and environmental mitigation processes. Widely recognized with a presence in 10 Latin American countries. BIO LATINA certifies over 400 operators and more than 50,000 producers i n Latin Americ a. BIOLATINA requires a one year conversion period from the date of the initial inspection until the certification is approved. After a one year period, production, as well as processing facilities, must be re - inspected anually for continued renewal. Glo bal recognition across 76 countries around the world. There are 763 Rainforest Alliance certified products and more than 1,354,057 people which have conducted training, certification and verification under the Rainforest Alliance standard. Rigurous on the en forcement of minimum standards and strong governance over the implementaton of social and environmental mitigation processes. Intercultural Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM – Organics International ) UTZ GLOBAL G.A.P. 30 Background IFOAM – Organics International is a global accreditation system for agriculture. The IFOAM Basic Standards and the IFOAM Accreditation Program are internationally applicable global standards that signal compliances with the organization’s standards of sus t ainable organic agriculture practices. The UTZ Label is a global certification system for coffee, cocoa, tea and hazelnuts. The UTZ certification incorporates environmental, social, farm management and farming practices considerations. UTZ merged with Ra i nforest Alliance in January 2018. The GLOBALG.A.P. (Global Good Agricultural Practice) is a global organization that promotes safe, sustainable agriculture worldwide. Clear positive impact Promoting sustainable practices in agriculture. Promoting sus t ainable practices in Coffee, Cocoa Tea and Hazelnut farming and trading. Promoting sustainable agricuilture practices, including for crops, livestock, and aquaculture. 30 https:// www.globalgap.org/uk_en/,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 13 Minimum standards Through its evaluation criteria, IFOAM – Organics International ens u res fair and orderly trade of organic products, namely the production of agricultural projects without the use of synthetic chemicals or processes. UTZ establishes a minimum threshold for impact through mandatory points and additional points and requires f armers to go beyond by demonstrating compliance with an increasingly large proportion of both mandatory and additional points. The GLOBALG.A.P . standard places a high degree of emphasis on the implemntation of management plans and procedures, with a corre s pondingly lower focus on quantitative targets. Assessment criteria are classified as “major must”, “minor must”, or “recommendation”, indicating the priority placed on highly important components of the standard. All major musts need to be met to receiv e certification. Scope of certification or programme IFOAM’s Organic Norms are guided by four high - level principles: (i) Principle of Health, (ii) Principle of Ecology, (iii) Principle of Fairness, and (iv) Principle of Care. UTZ addresses key risks su ch as human rights, child labour, pesticide use and biodiversity use through its criteria. The integrated standard requires assessment of waste & pollution management, environmental impact, water use, site productivity, and energy efficiency. The aquacult ure and livesto ck standards additionally cover four pillars laid out by the FAO (aquaculture: food safety, environment, workers, animal welfare; livestock: resource use efficiency, conservation, rural livelihoods, community and ec osystem resilience, and re sponsible management). Verification of standards and risk mitigation Certified entities undergo third party verification to ensure compliance with criteria and continuous improvement. Certified entities undergo third party verif ication to ensure complian ce with criteria and continuous improvement. GlobalGAP approves certification bodies, which can then in turn carry out audits and verification. Certification is valid for one year. Performance Display,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 14 Qualitative considerations Global recognition across 127 countries around the world with over 750 members. Through independent processes, national organic standards are developed with varying individual criteria that must meet the baseline requirements of the IFOAM Norms. Global recognition across 131 countries around the world. There are 987,000 UTZ Certified farmers in the UTZ programme with more than 368,000 workers on the UTZ certified farms in 41 producing countries and more than 3.4 million hectares of UTZ certified c rops. The UTZ name or lab el is present on more than 15,000 products in 131 countries worlwide. Rigurous on the enforcement of minimum standards and strong governance over the implementaton of social and environmental mitigation processes. Widely recogni zed internationally, and strong assurance of overall quality. However, the core standard does not impose stringent worker welfare standards, with particular concerns noted in the areas of health & safety and fair remuneration & bargaining rights. The opti onal GRASP assessment cov ers social impacts in more depth but is not required for certification. Furthermore, on the environmental dimension, G.A.P. does not prohibit the use of pesticides beyond those permitted by national regulations.,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 15 Appendix 3 : G reen Bond / Green Bond Pr ogramme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] Green Bond Framework Review provi der’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: September 2 4 , 2019 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an update and add reference to earlier relevant revie w] Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIE W The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above.,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 16 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possi ble and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible category for the use of proceed s - (i) Sustainable Land Use , ( ii ) Renewable Energy, (i ii ) Sustainable Water Management and ( i v) Clean Transport - align with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles 2018. Sustainalytics considers the range of eligible projects will lead to positive environmental impacts and to advance a number of key UN Sustainable Developme nt Goals . Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☒ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☒ Clean transportation ☒ Sustai nable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable ): CABEI’s will establish a Multidisciplinary Green Bond Working Group responsible for the evaluation and selection of Eligible Green Projects which will include cross departmental representatives. CABEI has developed detailed internal guidelines for proj ect selection that address environmental and social risk management which Sustainalytics con siders in line with market best practice.,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 17 Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☒ Documented proce ss to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selec tion criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : CABEI will take specific measures to track the invested amounts used, an d loans granted. Pending allocation, the net proceeds will be managed within the Bank’s treasury liquidity portfolio, in cash or other liquid instruments. This is in line with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or t racked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) :,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 18 4. REPORTING Overall comment on s ection (if applicable): CABEI intends to report on the allocation of bond proceeds on an annual basis , and for the duration of the g reen b ond(s) . The impact reporting will include relevant metrics. These reports will be made publicly available to all stak eholders. Sustainalytics views CABEI’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice . Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Impact reporting, where feasible, will include area of forest restored, area protected by sustainable land and water resource management, installed capacity of renewable energy, volume of water treated, and number of clean transportation projects financed.,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 19 Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ In formation published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): a report posted on its website ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external revi ew): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRI ATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second Party Opinion: A n institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information b ar riers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’ s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent ve rification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the envir on mentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, st atement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green s tandard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issu er can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating met ho dology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflec t material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 20 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 2019. All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights to the information contained herein is vested exclusively in Sustainalytics. No part of this deliverable may be reproduced, disseminat ed, comingled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made available to third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form or in any manner, be it electronically, mechanically, through phot ocopies or recordings without the express written consent of Sustainalytics. As the information herein is based on information made available by the issuer, the information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics does not warrant that the informa tion prese nted in this deliverable is complete, accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibility for errors or omissions and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the substance of the deliverable and/or any liability for damage ari sing from the use of this deliverable and/or the information provided in it. Any reference to third party names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. Nothing contained in t his delive rable shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty on the part of Sustainalytics, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in companies, selection of projects or make any kind of business transactions. It shall not b e construe d as an investment advice (as defined in the applicable jurisdiction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor its creditworthiness. The issuer is fully responsible for ce rtifying a nd ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion CABEI Gr een Bond Framework 21 Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a leadin g independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm that supports investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, the f irm partners with institut ional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 countries, the world’s leading issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to S ustainalytics for second - p arty opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds Standard Board as a verifier organization, and supports various stakeholders in the development and verification of the ir frameworks. In 2015, Gl obal Capital awarded Sustainalytics “Best SRI or Green Bond Research or Ratings Firm” and in 2018 and 2019, named Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider. The firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Climate B onds Initiative as well as Environmental Finance in 2018, and in 2019 was named the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” by the Climate Bonds Initiative. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special Mention Su stainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan and the Minister of the Environment Award in the Japan Green Contributor category of the Japan Green Bond Awards in 2019. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com