Latest update: June 2018 Green Bond / Green Bond Programme Independent External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Home Invest Belgium Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : Home Invest Belgium’s Green Finance Framework Independent External Review provider’s name: ISS ESG Completion date of this form: 21 . 12 .2021 Publication date of review publication: 1 4 . 12 .2021 Section 2 . Review o verview M SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate , to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use o f Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Second Party Opinion ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Scoring/ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) The issuer has defined a formal concept for its Green Finance Instruments regarding use of proceeds, processes for project evaluation and selection, management of proceeds and reporting. This concept is in line with the ICMA GBP and LMA GLP .,Page 2 of 6 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review . 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : ISS ESG considers the Use of Proceeds description provided by Home Invest Belgium’s G reen Finance Framework as aligned with the ICMA’s Green Bond Principles and Green Loan Principles. The Eligible Green Projects Categories defined by Home Invest Belgium are transparent, clear and aligned with categories defined by the principles. Besides t hat, HIB adopts a good practice of explicitly stating the exclusion of harmful project categories. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP : ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally su stainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic b iodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☒ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable) : ISS ESG considers the Process for Project Evaluation and Selection description provided by Home Invest Belgium’s Green Finance Framework as aligned with the ICMA’s Green Bond Principles and Green Loan Principles . The process is structured and documented, e ngages with internal and external expertise, and well defined the responsibilities and accountability in a transparent and clear that is aligned with market good practices.,Page 3 of 6 Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☒ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify) : 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : ISS ESG finds that Management of Proceeds proposed by Home Invest Belgium’s Green Finance Framework is aligned with the ICMA’s Green Bond Principles and Green Loan Principles. Home Invest Belgium has acknowledged that it intends to allocate an amount equivalent to the net proceeds of its green financing instruments towards its Eligible Green Projects. Home Invest Belgium also specified that any unallocated proceeds will be temporary and managed in acco rdance with its regular treasury criteria. Home Invest Belgium’s Green Finance Framework is also aligned with best practice as it defines the management of divestment or postponement and the period to allocate the full amount of proceeds. Tracking of pro ceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☒ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable) : ISS ESG finds that the reporting proposed by Home Invest Belgium’s Green Finance Framework as aligned with the ICMA’s Green Bond Principles and Green Loan Principles. The level, information reported, frequency, scope and duration of the issuer’s allocation reporting,Page 4 of 6 is clearly defined. In addition, b est practice includes level, information reported and frequency of the issuer’s impact reporting that are clearly defined in the Framework. Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond (s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☒ G reen B ond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify) : Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings (if data available) ☒ Energy Savings (if data available) ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify): - Number of eligible green buildings and total size in m²; - Distribution of eligible green buildings in terms of EPC label; - Installed renewable energy capacity (in MW) - Installed energy storage capacity (in MW),Page 5 of 6 Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☒ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): Home Invest Belgium’s website ☒ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): , a a limited assurance report of the allocation of the proceeds to its Eligible Green Projects, provided by an independent external auditor. The limited assurance report will be available on Home Invest Belgium’s website or integrated in the annual report. Wh ere appropriate , please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer ’s documentation, etc.) SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEW S AVAILABLE , IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☒ Second Party Opinion ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Scoring/ Rating ☒ Other (please specify): A limited assurance report of the allocation of the proceeds to its Eligible Green Projects, provided by an independent external auditor. Review provider(s): ISS ESG Date of publication: 19 .1.202 2,Page 6 of 6 ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDER S AS DEFINED BY THE GBP 1. Second Party Opinion : An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as informatio n barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issu er’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. 2. Verification: An issuer can obtain independe nt verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the en vironmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceed s, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. 3. Certification : An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external gr een standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consistency with the certification criteria. 4. Green Bond Scoring/Rating : An i ssuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless ref lect material environmental risks.