DNV GL Busin ess Assurance Australia Pty. Ltd. Level 4, 181 Miller Street, North Sydney, NSW Australia, 2060. Ph: +61 (2) 9922 1966 https://www.dnvgl.com/assurance/ FLEXIGROUP MANAGEMENT PTY LTD GREEN SECURITISATION 2018 DNV GL ASSURANCE OPINION Scope and o bjectives FlexiGroup Management Pty Ltd (“ FLEXI ” or “Issuer” ) i s considering the issuance of a Green Securitisation of the A2 - G and B - G tranche s for their 201 8 issuance in AUD (henceforth referred to as “BOND”) and has submitted the proposed bond for verification and certification against the Climate Bond Standard (CBS) . FLEXI intends to use the proceeds of the BOND to finance a nominated projects and assets falling under the following categories: • Renewable Energy – Solar DNV GL Business Assurance Australia Pty Ltd ( henceforth referred to as “ DNV GL ” ) has been commissioned by FLEXI to provide verification of the BOND as an independent and approved verifier under the Climate Bond Standard . Our criteria and information covered to achieve this is described under ‘Work Undertaken’ below. No assurance is provided regarding th e financial performance of the B OND , the v alue of any investments in the B OND S , or the long term environmental benefits of the transaction. Our objective has been to provide an assessment that the B OND has met the criteria of the Climate Bond Standard and the associated Technical Criteria on the basis set out below. The scope of this DNV GL opinion is limited to the Climate Bond Standard Version 2.1 and the following associated Sector Technical Criteria: • Solar Responsibilities of the Management of FLEXI and DNV GL The management of FLEXI has provided the information and data used by DNV GL during the delivery of this review . Our statement represents an independent opinion and is intended to inform FLEXI management and other interested stakeholders in the B OND as to whether the established criteria have been met, based on the information provided to us. In our work we have relied on the information and the facts presented to us by FLEXI . DNV GL is not responsible for any aspect of the nominated assets referred to in this opinion and cannot be held liable if estimates, findings, opinions, or conclusions are incorrect. Thus, DNV GL shall not be held liable if any of the information or data provided by FLEXI ’s management and used as a basis for this assessment were not correct or complete.,Page 2 of 6 Basis of DNV GL’s opinion DNV GL has conducted the verification against the CBS v 2.1 and associated Sector Technical Criteria through the creation and execution of a verification protocol addressing each requirement of the CBS v 2.1 and the associated Sector Technical Criteria . The detail of areas covered in the DNV GL verification is summarised in Schedule 2 below. Work undertaken Our work constituted a high level review of the available information, based on the understanding that this information was provided to us by FLEXI in goo d faith. We have not performed an audit or other tests to check the veracity of the information provided to us. The work undertaken to form our opinion included: • C reation and execution of a Climate Bond Standard Protocol , adapted to include the relevant Sector Technical Criteria for the B OND nominated projects and assets , as described above and in Schedule 2 to this Assessment ; • Assessment of documentary evidence provided by FLEXI on the B OND and supp lemented by a high - level desktop research, documentation review and correspondence with key personnel from the issuer FLEXI . These checks refer to current assessment best practices and standards methodology ; • Discussions with FLEXI management , and review of relevant documentation ; • D ocumentation of findings against each element of the criteria . Our opinion as detailed below is a summary of these findings.,Page 3 of 6 Findings and DNV GL’s opinion DNV GL has performed the Pre Issuance Verification of the FLEXI Green Bond. It is DNV GL’s responsibility to provide an independent verification statement on the compliance of the 2018 FLEXI Green Securitisation with the Climate Bond Standard. DNV GL conducted the verification in accordance with the Climate Bond Standard Version 2.1 and with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information . The verification included i) checking whet her the provisions of the Climate Bond Standard were consistently and appropriately applied and ii) the collection of evidence supporting the verification. DNV GL’s verification approach draws on an understanding of the risks associated with conforming to the Climate Bond Standard and the controls in place to mitigate these. DNV GL planned and performed the verification by obtaining evidence and other information and explanations that DNV GL considers necessary to give limited assurance that the FLEXI Green Bond meets the requirements of the Climate Bond Standard. Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the FLEXI Green Bond is not, in all material respects, in accordance with the Pre Issuance requirements of the Climate Bond Standard Version 2.1 and Associated Solar and Low Carbon Transport Technical Criteria. for DNV GL Business Assurance Australia Pty Ltd Sydney , 31 March 2018 Mark Robinson Manager, Sustainability Services DNV GL – Business Assurance About DNV GL Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, DNV GL enables organisations to advance the safety and sustainability of their business. Combining leading technical and operational expertise, risk methodology and in - depth industry knowledge, we empower our customers’ decisions and actions with trust and confidence. We continuously invest in research and collaborative innova tion to provide customers and society with operational and technological foresight. With our origins stretching back to 1864, our reach today is global. Operating in more than 100 countries, our 16,000 professionals are dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener.,Page 4 of 6 SCHEDULE 1: DESCRIPTION OF NOMINATED ASSET S Eligible Projects & Assets Category Sub category Projec t s Current Balance January 2018 ( $ m) Renewable Energy Solar Rooftop Solar PV and Solar H ot W ater Loans $ 117 Total $ 117,Page 5 of 6 SCHEDULE 2: VERIFICATION CRITERI A Summary criteria for assertions of compliance with the Climate Bond Standard v 2.1 The criteria against which FLEXI and its nominated projects and assets have been reviewed prior to inclusion in the Bond are grouped under the r equirements as detailed within the Climate Bond Standard Version 2.1 including: Part A: General Requirements 1. Area 2. Requirement 3. Project Nomination 4. A decision - making process shall be maintained to determine the continuing eligibility of the nominated projects and assets. 5. Use of Proceeds 6. Net p roceeds of the bond must be allocated to nominated projects and assets . 7. Non - Contamination 8. The net proceeds of the bond shall be credited to a sub - account, moved to a sub - portfolio or otherwise identified in an appropriate manner, and documented. 9. Confidentiality 10. Information about the nominated projects and assets s hall be provided to the Verifier and to the Climate Bonds Standard Board to support the assessment of conformance with the Climate Bonds Standard. The information disclosed to the Verifier and the Climate Bond s Standard Board may be subject to confident iality arrangements . 11. Reporting 12. There are specific requirements in respect of r eporting on use of proceeds and nominated projects and assets . Part B: Low Carbon Contribution - Eligible projects and physical assets Nominated projects and assets include financing of or investments in equipment and systems which enable the mitigation of greenhouse gasse s , as detailed in Appendix B . Area Requirement,Page 6 of 6 Solar Energy Generation Eligible Project & Assets relating to solar energy generation shall be projects or assets that operate or are under construction to operate in one or more of the following activities: Onshore solar ele ctricity generation facilities Wholly dedicated transmission infrastructure and other supporting infrastructure for onshore solar electr icity generation facilities including inverters, transformers, energy storage systems and control systems. Onshore solar thermal facilities such as solar hot water systems. Part C: Bond structures 1. Area 2. Requirement 3. Project Holding 4. The issuer of a climate bond shall continue to hold nominated projects and assets which have a value at least equal to the original principal amount of the bond at the time of issuance or the amount outstanding as the case may be . 5. Earmarking 6. The Issuer of the bond shall maintain the earmarking process to manage and account for funding to the nominated projects and assets .