- © Sustainalytics 20 20 Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2021 and the Green Loan Principles 202 1 . This assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor y for the use of proceeds – Renewable Energy – is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples 2021 and the Green Loan Principles 2021 . Sustainalytics consider s that investments in the eligible category will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically SDG 7. Northland Power (“Northland” or the “Company”) has an Investment Committee that will be responsible for identifying new eligible projects while its operation s and asset management group s will identify expenditures related to upgrade s and maintenance of a ssets . Final project selection will be made by Northland’s ESG Steering Committee . Northland’s company - level environmental and social risk mitigation processes are applicable to all allocation decisions made under the Framework . Sustainalyt ics considers the risk management systems to be strong and the project selection process to be in line with market practice . The p roceeds raised under the Framework will be monitored by Northland’s Global Treasury team and reported to the ESG Steering Committee. The company intends to allocate proceeds within 24 months of each issuance. Pending full allocation, proceeds will be held in cash reserve s . This is in line with market practice. Northland intends to report on the allocation of proceeds on its website annually . Allocation report ing will include a list of eligible projects, amou nt of proceeds allocated by project category, and the balance of any unallocated proceeds. In addition, the company is committed to i mpact report ing on relevant metrics . Sustainalytics views the allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practi ce. Evaluation date December 17 , 202 1 1 Issuer Locatio n Toronto , Canada Report Sections Introduction ................................ ............... 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion .............................. 3 Append ices ................................ ................ 9 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Ijeoma Madueke (Toronto) Project Manager ijeoma . madueke @sustainalytics.com (+1) 647 317 3631 Daniel Sanchez (Toronto) Project Support Zhenyi L V (Toronto) Project Support Anchal Verma (Toronto) Project Support Guilherme Grunthal (Toronto) Client Relations susfinance.americas@sustainalytics.com (+1) 646 518 9623 Alignment with the EU Taxonom y Sustaina lytics has assessed N orthland ’s Green Finance Framework for alignment with the EU Taxonomy and is of the opinion that , of the Framework’s three eligibility categories ( which map to two EU activities ) , all three align with the applicable Technical Screening Criteria (“TSC”) in the EU Taxonomy and partially align with the Do No Significant Harm (“DNSH”) Criteria. No categories were determined to be not aligned . Sustainalytics is also of the opinion that the activities and projects to be financed under the Framework will be carried out in alignment with the EU Taxonomy’s Minimum Safeguards. 1 This document is an update of a Second - Party Opinion originally published on January 25, 2021. In October 2021, Northland engaged Sustainalytics to assess its revised Green Financing Framework. No changes were made to the use of proceeds categories or the assessment of the Framework’s alignment with the EU Taxonomy. The scope of Sustainalytics’ update consists of assessing alignment with the 2021 Green Bond Principles and 2021 Green Loan Principles as well as the adjustment of the lookback period to allow for financing of existing long - life eligible projects.,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 2 Introduction Northland Power Inc. ( “ Northland ” , or the “Company”) is a global power producer dedicated to producing energy from clean renewable resources. Northland develop s , build s , own s and operat es power infrastructure assets in several regions, including North America , Europe, Asia and Latin America . Northland ’s facilities generate electricity from natural gas or use renewable sources, such as wind and solar power. Established in 1987, Northland is h eadquartered in Toronto, Canada, has global offices in eleven c ountries, and employ ed over 1,000 people at the end of 2020 . The Company derives most of its revenue from the sale of electricity under long - term agreements with credit - worthy counterparties . Northland has developed the Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it and/or its subsidiaries intend to issue multiple green bonds and loans , and where the use the proceeds will finance and refinance, in whole or in part, existing an d future projects that enable decarbonization of the energy sector . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in the area of Renewable Energy . Northland engaged Sustainalytics to review the Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework , dated January 2021 , and provide a n updated S econd - P arty O pinion 2 on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021 (GBP) 3 and the Green Loan Principles 2021 (GLP). 4 This F ramework will been published in a separate document . 5 Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics Second - Party Opinion Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent 6 opinion on the alignment of the reviewed Framework with the current market standards and the extent to which th e eligible categories are credible and impactful. As part of the Second - Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following: • The Framework’s alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021 , as administered by ICMA, and the Green Loan Principles 2021 , as administered by LMA , APLMA and LSTA ; 7 • Alignment with the EU Taxonomy 2020; • The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds ; and • The alignment of the issuer ’ s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk managemen t in relation to the use of proceeds . For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1. 11 , which is informed by market practice and Sustainalytics ’ expertise as an ESG research provider. As part of this engageme nt, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Northland ’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of Northland’s business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Framework . Northland representatives have confirmed : (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of Northland to ensure that the information provided is complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant in formation ; and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. 2 The original Second - Party Opinion was published on January 25, 2021 and is available at: https://mstar - sustops - cdn - mainwebsite - s3.s3.amazonaws.com/docs/default - sou rce/spos/northland - power - green - financing - framework - second - party - opinion.pdf?sfvrsn=bcef64d7_3 3 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ . 4 The Green Loan Principles are administered by the Loan Market Association, Asia Pacific Loan Market As sociation and Loan Syndications & Trading Association and are available at https://www.lsta.org/content/green - loan - principles/ 5 The Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework is available on Northland Power Inc ’s website at: https://www.northlandpower.com/en/about - northland/sustainability.aspx . 6 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustainalytics and ensuring analyst independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust con flict management framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consi stency of process, structural separation of commercial and research (and engagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ ha llmarks is integrity, another is transparency. 7 In addition to the Loan Markets Association, the GLP is also administered by the Asia Pacific Loan Market Association and the Loan Syndications & Trading Association,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 3 This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework and sho uld be read in conjunction with that Framework. Any update of the present Second - Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement conditions between Sustainalytics and Northland . Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market standa rds, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible projects expected to be financed with green bond and loan proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The measurement and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framework is the responsibility of the Framework owner. In addition, the Second - Party Opinion opines on the intended allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee the realised allocation of the green bond and loan proceeds towards eligible activities. No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second - Party Opinion shall be considered as being a statement, representation, warrant or argument , either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that Northland has made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second - Party Opinion . Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the GBP and GLP . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of Northland ’s G reen Finance F ramework : • Use of Proceeds: - The eligible category , Renewable Energy , is aligned with those recognized by the GBP and GLP . - The Framework defines a look - back period of 36 months for refinancing of eligible projects with the exception of existing long - life projects which will have no specific look - back period. This is in line wi th market expectation. - Northland will invest in the acquisition, development and/or construction of solar photovoltaic projects and offshore and onshore wind power projects. I n addition to expenditures for new projects, Northland may consider invest ing in capital upgrades, maintenance and enhancements . These activities are in line with market practice. ▪ Northland may also use proceeds to refinance corporate and/or project debt a ssociated with existing eligible projects. As this refinancing relates to physical assets, Sustainalytics considers this to be in line with market expectations. • Project Evaluation and Selection: - Northland’s cross - functional Investment Committee will be re sponsible for identifying and evaluating new projects that fit the eligibility criteria outline d in the Framework. Furthermore the Company’s operation and asset management group will oversee expenditures pertaining to upgrades, enhancing performance and / or extending the useful life of existing asset s. Northland’s ESG Steering Committee, which has an overarching responsibility to oversee all ESG related issues, will provide the final decision on project selection. - For all new projects conte mplated, social and environmental risks are identified, assessed and managed during each stage of a project’s lifecycle. D uring development, Northland’s ESG and development teams work to identify and assess early - stage risks during due diligence, design, e ngineering and procurement. In addition, d uring construction and operations there are dedicated on - site environment and health and safety managers to ensure ongoing monitoring, mitigation and reporting on ESG performance and incidents. Sustainalytics consi ders these environmental and social risk management systems to be strong and aligned with market expectations. For additional detail see Section 2.,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 4 - Based on the presence of a dedicated committee with defined identification and approval process for s electing eligible projects , Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. • Management of Proceeds: - Proceeds raised under the Framework will be deposited to Northland’s operating ac count (or to the account of a subsidiary in the case of green financing by a special - purpose project entity ) . The allocat ed and unallocated proceeds will be tracked and monitored by Northland’s Global Treasury team and reported to the ESG Steering Committe e . - Northland commits to allocating proceeds within 24 months of the issuance of a green bond or loan . Pending full allocation, u nallocated proceeds wi ll be held in cash reserve s and managed in accordance with the Company’s cash management policies and investment mandates. - Based on its fund allocation process Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. • Reporting: - Northland will report annually on its website , 8 its information on project allocation and impact metrics. Allocation report ing will provide information on the eligible project portfolio such as a list of eligible projects, the amount of proceeds allocated by project category, and balance of unallocated proceeds. - Impact report ing will include a description of eligible projects , methodology and assumptions used to evaluate the impacts and impact metrics such as installed net rene wable energy capacity (MW), renewable energy production (MWh), e xpected GHG reduced and/or avoided (tonnes of CO 2 emissions) , e xpected energy efficiency savings (kWh) . - Based on the above, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2021 and Green Loan Principles 2021 Sustainalytics has determined that the Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework aligns to the four core components of the GBP and GLP . For detail ed information please refer to Appendix 1 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Alignment with the EU Taxonomy Sustainalytics has assessed each of the Framework’s eligible green use of proceeds criteria against the relevant criteria in th e EU Taxonomy and determined their alignment with each of the Taxonomy’s three sets of requirements. The results of this assessment are as follows: 1. Technical Screening Criteria (“TSC”) − The three eligible categories outlined in the Framework , which map to two EU Taxonomy activities, were assessed and are aligned with the applicable TSC of the EU Taxonomy. 2. Do No Significant Harm (“DNSH”) Criteria − Both of the activities are partially aligned with the applicable DNSH criteria. − The two activities assessed h ave a total of seven individual DNSH criteria (across all environmental objectives) applicable to them and are aligned with one , partially aligned with four , and not aligned with two of those individual DNSH criteria . 3. Minimum Safeguards − Based on a consideration of the policies and management systems applicable to Framework criteria, as well as the regulatory context in which financing will occur, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the EU Taxonomy’s Minimum Safeguards requirements will be met. − For Sustainalytics’ assessment of alignment with the Minimum Safeguard see Section 2 below. Table 1 provides an overview of the alignment of N orthlan d ’s Framework with the TSC and DNSH criteria for the corresponding NACE activities in the EU Taxo nomy . 8 Northland Power Inc, at: www.northlandpower.com,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 5 Table 1 : Summary of Alignment of Framework Criteria with the EU Taxonomy Framework Criterion Alignment with Taxonomy Criteria Alignment per EU Environmental Objective TSC DNSH Mitigation Adaptation Water Circular Economy Pollution Eco - systems E lectricity generation from wind power       –  E lectricity generation using s olar photovoltaic technology     –  –  Legend Aligned  Partially aligned  Not aligned  No applicable DNSH criteria for this Objective and/or Activity – Grey shading indicates the primary EU Environmental Objective * The EU Taxonomy has not yet defined TSC for EU Environmental Objectives other than Climate Mitigation and Climate Adaptatio n. In cases where an activity of the Framework has the intent of advancing a different Objective, Sustainalytics has assessed al ign ment against the DNSH criteria for all six Objectives. Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of Northland Contribution of framework to Northland Power Inc. ’s sustainability strategy Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Northland demonstrates a strong commitment to sustainability , noting that Northland’s business is based on the development and operation of clean energy facilities. The Company describes its vision “ be a top clean and green developer, constructor, owner, and operator of sustainable infrastructure assets ”. 9 Northland has set goals across its business activities to improve its performance on its e nvironmental, s ocial and g overnance performance. Its environmental goals aim to achieve “ global leadership in the development of green energy ” , by : (i) leading and innovating the de - carbonization s hift ; (ii) harnessing climate change opportunities through the ownership and development of renewable energy pro jects ; and (iii) managing shared resources . 10 In 2020 , 6 2 % of Northland’s power generation was from renewable source avoiding 1.32 million tonnes of CO 2e . 11 Most of Northland’s emission s and water usage relate to its thermal facilities. Northland reports that in 2020 it used 82 .4 million cubic meter of water in its thermal facilities of which it returned 99 % to the original source while ensuring that the water discharged is in accordance with permit requirements of fac tors such as pH - levels, temperature and mineral levels. 12 Additionally, Northland ensures that they do not operate in areas of water stress. 13 To complement its efforts to mitigate emissions and monitor environmental impact, Northland also undertakes habit at restoration and clean up drives in the areas it operates. 14 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework is aligned with the company’s overall sustainability strategy and initiatives and will support the Company’s progress on its key environmental priorities. 9 Northland Power Inc., “2020 Sustainability Report”, (2020), at: https:// www.northlandpower.com/en/resources/Corporate%20Reports/2020%20Sustainability%20Report_Accessible.pdf 10 Ibid . 11 Ibid . 12 Ibid. 13 Ibid. 14 Ibid .,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 6 Well - positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While the net proceeds from green bonds and loans issued under the Framework will be directed towards eligible projects that are anticipated to have positive environmental impact, Sustainalytics recognizes that activities related to the development of energy infrastructure could also lead to negative environmental and social outcomes . Some key environment al and social risks associated with the eligible projects could include impact on local habitats and biodiversity, workplace health and safety and community relations , particularly those pertaining to indigenous rights . Sustainalytics is of the opinion tha t Northland is able to manage and/or mitigate potential risks through implementation of the following: 15 • Northland’s ESG and development teams identify and assess social and environmental risk s during each stage of a project’s lifecycle. During the construction and operations phase, on - site environment and health and safety managers ensure ongoing monitoring, mitigation and report ing on ESG performance and incidents. 16 • Northland conducts envir onmental impact assessments and develops a plan for biodiversity protection prior to selecting and developing a project site . During operations, Northland’s environmental management team s monitor the project sites to support and ensure the long - term sustai nability of wildlife populations and ecosystems. Northland also partners with local, non - governmental, academic and government organizations, to support research programs to protect and manage ecosystems. The Company also undertakes habitat restoration act ivities in the areas surrounding its project sites . • Northland has established a Health and Safety Management System that provides targets for all of Northland’s international offices and facilities to monitor, evaluate and report on their health and safety performance . The Company has established a Global Risk Management Program under which it monitors and manages common workplace hazards and risks and ensures compliance with regional laws, regulations and industry best practices. In order to manage r isks pertaining to non - routine tasks, Northland’s team uses a Job Hazard Analysis , a technique to identify hazards , assess risks and develop methods to mitigate these risks. • At the launch of each project, Northland identifies its stakeholders in order to understand the customs and practices of the local communities within which it operates. The Company undertakes community consultations at the project proposal stage and commit s to having open and transparent communication throughout construction and operat ion s . Northland’s onsite development team s also undergo training for cultural sensitivity to improve communication with local communities and Indigenous groups . Northland has formed partnerships with several Indigenous communities in the region s that it op erate s ; these partnerships provide direct economic benefits, labour and employment opportunities and support community programs that have positive soc io - economic impacts. Alignment with the EU Taxonomy’s Minimum Safeguards The EU Taxonomy recommends that c ompanies have policies aligned with international and regional guidelines and regulation s pertaining to human rights, labour rights, and combating bribery and corruption. Key examples include the UN Guiding Principles on Bu siness and Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) declaration on Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work , and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises . While Northland is not a signatory and/ or has not formally referenced th ese guidelines in its corporate policies , it has communicated that it aims to ensure that its practices and policies draw from international best practices. Northland’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 17 outlines the Company’s fundamental ethical principles . This Code inten ds to promote integrity and ethical behaviour and to deter wrongdoing among employees, officers, directors, consultants, and representatives of Northland. The Code also enforces compliance with local laws and regulation as well a s provid ing mechanism s to report c ontraventions of the Code . Northland’s Code, in addition to other policies, support the Company’s performance in areas of labour rights and human rights. As descr ibed above, Northland has a robust commitment to occupation al health and safety through its Health and Safety Management System and Global Risk Management Program. Northland also 15 Northland Power Inc., “2020 Sustainability Report”, (2020), at: https://www.northlandpower.com/en/resources/Corporate%20Reports/2 020%20Sustainability%20Report_Accessible.pdf 16 Northland Power Inc, “Green Financing Framework” 17 Northland Power, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics , December 2020, at: https://www.northlandpower.com/en/about - northland/resources/Policies/NPI%20Governance%20 - %20Code%20of%20Business%20Conduct%20and%20Ethics%20Restated%202020%20vA .pdf,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 7 has a Diversity Policy 18 which promotes diversity and inclusion to its board of directors and in executive management. In addition , t o e nsure health and safety of its employees and contractors , the Company adheres to internationally recognized occupational health and safety standards, such as those of the International Organization for Standardization . 19 As part of its stakeh older engagement process, Northland habitually partners with local and indigenous communities to ensure that their needs are meet and that their partnership leads to the long - term development of the communities within which it operates. 20 Northland has a n Anti - Bribery/Anti Corruption Policy 21 (ABAC) through which it commits to compliance with applicable laws relating to bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions where the Company conducts business. The ABAC policy applies to all of Northland and its affiliates including directors, officers and employees , as well as third parties, including agents, representatives, consultants and contractors . Northland has communicated that it p rovides annual ABAC training to its employees , who are required to certify on an annual basis that they have read, understood and will comply with the terms of the policy , as well as conduct ing background checks on third part ies prior to engagement. Northland has further disclosed that , while undertaking non - recourse project deb t to fund developments and acquisitions of assets/projects, an additional layer of review is undertaken by independent advisors to ensure that contractors and suppliers comply with laws and requirements. Northland has also communicated that its corporate and local human resources teams consult with local legal counsel along with specialized advisors and consultants to ensure compliance with local requirements . Based on these policies, standards and assessments, Sustainalyt ics is of the opinion that Northland policies, guidelines and commitments are sufficient to demonstrate that the activities and projects to be financed under the Framework will be carried out in alignment with the EU Taxonomy’s Minimum Safeguards . Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds Th e use of proceeds catego ry is aligned with those recognized by the GBP and GLP , focused on increasing renewable energy in the global energy mix. Renewable Energy’s Contribution to Achieving Climate Goals Drastic decreases to global emissions will be required to achieve the commitments of the Paris Agreement, specifically to limit global average temperature increases to well below 2°C and aim to limit the increase to 1.5°C . 22 A ccording to data from the Worl d Bank, greenhouse gas emissions from electricity and heat production make up 49% of all fuel combustion . 23 Therefore, increasing the share of renewable energy generation has the potential to have significant impact on meeting climate goals. A study from t he International Energy Agency (IEA) and the International Renewable Energy A gency (IRENA) supports this assessment, estimating that 65 - 70% o f worldwide primary energy demand would need to be met by low - carbon energy sources by 2050 in order to meet the 2° C target. 24 Although in 201 9 , renewable energy experience d strong growth worldwide , accoun ting for almost over one fourth of global electricity generation , 25 this rate of deployment must be ramped up to meet international targets. There were over 2 , 5 00 gigawatts G W of global renewable energy capacity at the end of 2019 . Northland can play a significant role in the future growth of renewable energy capacity, with 4 - 5 GW of renewable capacity under development, including the 1 GW Hai Long project in Taiwan . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the use of proceeds raised under of Northland ’ s Framework will contribute to decarbonizing the electricity sector and thereby support global climate goals. 18 Northland Power, Diversity Policy, January 2021, at: https://www.northlandpower.com/Accessible%20Files/Policies/NPI_B_LG_009_Di versity%20Policy%202020_EN.pdf 19 Northland Power Inc., “2020 Sustainability Report”, (2020), at: https://www.northlandpower.com/e n/resources/Corporate%20Reports/2020%20Sustainability%20Report_Accessible.pdf 20 Ibid . 21 Northland Power, Anti - Bribery/Anti Corruption Policy , December 2020, at: https://www.northlandpower.com/Accessible%20Files/Policies/NPI_B_LG_002_Anti - Bribery_Anti%20Corruption%20Policy%202020_EN.pdf 22 European Commission, Paris Agreement, accessed on December 2020, at: https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/international/negotiations/paris_en 23 World Bank Group, CO2 em issions from electricity and heat production, 2014, at: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EN.CO2.ETOT.ZS 24 IRENA, Global Renewables Outlook, 2020 , at: https://www.irena.org/ - /media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2020/Apr/IRENA_Global_Renewables_Outlook_2020.pdf 25 IEA, Global Energy Supply 2020, at: https://www.iea.org/reports/global - energy - review - 2020/renewables,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 8 Alignment with/ contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. G reen bond s and loans issued under this Green Financ ing Framework advance the following SD G and target: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Renewable Energy 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the glob al energy mix Conclusion Northland has developed the Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework under which it and/or its subsidiaries will issue green bonds and loans where the use of proceeds will finance renewable energy projects . Sustainalytics considers that the project s funded by the green bond and loan proceeds will contribute towards the decarbonization of the global energy sector. The Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework outlines a process by which proceeds will be tracke d, allocated, and managed, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocation and impact of the use of proceeds. Furthermore, Sustainalytics believes that the Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework is aligned with the overall sustainability strategy of the company and that the green use of proceed s category will contribute to the advancement of the UN Sustainable Development Goa l 7. Additionally, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Northland has a dequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible projects funded by the use of proceeds. Sustainalytics has assessed Northland ’s Green Financ ing Framework for alignment with the EU Taxon omy, and is of the opinion that, of the Framework’s three use of proceeds category, which map to two EU activities, are all in align ment with the applicable Technical Screening Criteria (“TSC”) in the EU Taxonomy and are partially align ed with the applicable Do No Significant Harm Criteria. No categories were determined to be not aligned . Sustainalytics is also of the opinion that the acti vities and projects to be financed under the Framework will be carried out in alignment with the EU Taxonomy’s Minimum Safeguards. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Northland Power Inc. and its subsidiaries are well - positioned to issue g reen bonds and loans , and that th e Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2021 and Green Loan Principles 2021 .,- © Sustainalytics 20 20 A ppendices Appendix 1: Approach to Assessing Alignment with the EU Taxonomy Approach to Alignment Assessment Sustainalytics has assessed each of the eligible green use of proceeds criteria in the Framework against the criteria for the relevant NACE 26 activity in the EU Taxonomy. This appendix describes Sustainalytics’ process and presents the outcome of its assessment of alignment with the Taxonomy’s a pplicable Technical Screening Criteria (TSC) an d Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria. Sustainalytics’ assessment involves two steps: 1. Mapping Framework Criteria to Activities in the EU Taxonomy The initial step in Sustainalytics’ assessment process involves mapping each criterion in the Framework to a relevant and applicable NACE activity in the EU Taxonomy. Note that each Framework criterion may be relevant and applicable to more than one NACE activity and vice versa. Sustainalyti cs recognizes that some Framework criteria relate to projects that d o not map well to a NACE activity. In such cases , Sustainalytics has mapped to the NACE activity that is most relevant with respect to the primary environmental objective and impacts. In some cases, the Framework criteria cannot be mapped to an activity in the EU Taxonomy, as some activities are not yet covered by the Taxonomy, and some categories which are traditionally included in green bonds may not be associated with a specific economic activity. While recognizing th at financing projects in these areas may still have environmental benefits, Sustainal ytics has not assessed these criteria for alignment. The outcome of Sustainalytics’ mapping process for Northland ’s Framework is shown in Error! Reference source not found. below. 2. Determining Alignment with EU Taxonomy Criteria The second ste p in Sustainalytics’ process is to determine the alignment of each criterion with relevant criteria in the EU Taxonomy. Align ment with the TSC and DNSH criteria is usually based on the specific criteria contained in the issuer’s Framework, and may in many cases (especially DNSH criteria) also be based on management systems and processes and/or regulatory compliance. To assess alignment with the EU Taxonomy’s Minimum Safeguards Sus tainalytics has conducted an assessment of policies, management systems and processes applicable to the use of proceeds, as well as examining the regulatory context in the geographical location in which the issuer will finance activities and projects. (Thi s assessment is included in Section 2, above.) In cases where the Framework criteria describe projects which are intended to advance EU environmental objectives other than Climate Mitigation or Climate Adaptation, the Taxonomy does not include relevant TSC . In these cases, Sustainalytics has assessed the activity for alignment with the DNSH criteria across all objectives. Sustainalytics’ detailed assessment of alignment is provided in Appendix 2. Table 2 : Framework mapping table Framework Category Framework Criterion (Eligible Use of Proceeds) EU / NACE Activity NACE Code Primary EU Environmental Objective Refer to Table Renewable Energy Offshore wind Electricity generation from wind power D.35.11 F42.22 Mitigation Table 1 Onshore wind Solar Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology D.35.11 F42.22 Mitigation Table 2 26 The EU Taxonomy is based on economic activities defined in NACE (Nomenclature des Activités Économiques dans la Communau té Européenne). The Taxonomy currently lists 70 economic activities which have been chosen due to their ability to substantially contribute to climate change mitigation or adaptation.,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 10 Appendix 2: Comprehensive EU Taxonomy Alignment Assessment The tables below provide a detailed assessment of the alignment of Northland ’s Framework criteria with the EU Taxonomy’s TSC and DNSH criteria for the relevant NACE activity. Table 3 Framework Activity assessed Renewable Energy EU Activity Electricity generation from wind power NACE Code D.35.1 1 and F42.22 EU Technical Screening Criteria Alignment with Technical Screening Criteria Mitigation The activity generates electricity from wind power. Eligible by default Aligned DNSH Criteria Alignment with DNSH Criteria Climate Change Adaptation Refer to the assessment set out in Appendix 3, Table 5 . Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources In case of construction of offshore wind, the activity complies with the requirements of Directive 2008/56/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council in relation to its Descriptor 11 (Noise/Energy), laid down in Annex I to that Directive, and Commission Decision (EU) 2017/848239 in relation to the releva nt criteria and methodological standards for that descriptor. Northland has communicated that its offshore wind projects to date have been in jurisdictions which have strong regulatory requirements which focused on the protection of the marine environment. 27 Northland aims to ensure that it complies with relevant requirements through out its design, co nstruction and operations stages. This compliance is achieved by hiring responsible contractors and maintaining active environmental monitoring of their activities by its staff. Northland has provided to Sustainalytics examples of projects where it conduct s ecological monitoring across a range of areas and reports the results . 28 Aligned Transition to a circular economy The activity assesses availability of and, where feasible, uses equipment and components of high durability and recyclability and that are easy to dismantle and refurbish. Northland considers land/water acquisition as a ‘ first priority ’ in all of its development activities and assessing the available land/water for environmental constraints is completed early by trained environmental spec ialists . Northland has communicated that during the early development stage of a project , it follows a systematic process where if a project is found to have a “fatal land use flaw” , the Company will Partially Aligned 27 Northland’s confirms all its assets and development efforts are concentrated in OECD countries , with the exception of Hai Long offshore wind projects in Taiwan . 28 Gemini Wind Park, “Ecological Monitoring Reports”, at: https://geminiwindpark.nl/ecological - reports.html,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 11 not pursue the project any further . If any constraints are found it will attempt to mitigate it through project design and specialized practices. Northland has communicated that being a long - term owner and operator of its facilities, it selects components an d equipment from best - in - class equipment suppliers that is intended to last and perform throughout an asset’s useful life . It also undertakes maintenance activities to meet useful l ife of assets . While not a commitment in policy, Northland will likely e xamine repowering/refurbishing/upgrading opportunities as assets approach end - of - life (e.g. repower a wind farm, or replace old solar panels with newer, more efficient models). If a project is to be dismantled, Northland has expressed that efforts will be made to maximize the amount recycled/re - used materials and minimize waste. Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems Refer to the assessment set out in Appendix 3, Table 6 . Table 4 Framework Activity assessed Renewable Energy EU Activity Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology NACE Code D.35.1 1 and F42.22 EU Technical Screening Criteria Alignment with Technical Screening Criteria Mitigation The activity generates electricity using solar PV technology. Eligible by default Aligned DNSH Criteria Alignment with DNSH Criteria Climate Change Adaptation Refer to the assessment set out in Appendix 3, Table 5 . Transition to a c ircular e conomy The activity assesses availability of land, where feasible, uses equipment and components of high durability and recyclability and that are easy to dismantle and refurbish. Northland considers land/water acquisition as a ‘ first priority ’ in all of its development activities and assessing the available land/water for environmental constraints is completed early by trained environmental specialists . Partially Aligned,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 12 Northland has communicated that during the early development stage of a project, it follow s a systematic process where if a project is found to have a “fatal land use flaw” , the Company will not pursue the project any further. If any constraints are found it will attempt to mitigate it through project design and specialized practices. Northlan d has communicated that being a long - term owner and operator of its facilities, it selects components and equipment from best - in - class equipment suppliers that is intended to last and perform throughout an asset’s useful life . It also undertakes maintenanc e activities to meet useful like of assets . While not a commitment in policy, Northland will likely examine repowering/refurbishing/upgrading opportunities as assets approach end - of - life (e.g. repower a wind farm, or replace old solar panels with newer, more efficient models). If a project is to be dismantled, Northland has expressed that efforts will be made to maximize the amount recycled/re - used materials and minimize waste. Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems Refer to the assessment set out in Appendix 3, Table 6.,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 13 Appendix 3 : Criteria for Do No Significant Harm (“DNSH”) to Climate Change Adaptation and Protection and Restoration of Biodiversity and Ecosystems Table 5 Criteria for DNSH to Climate Change Adaptation DNSH Criteria Alignment with DNSH Criteria The physical climate risks that are material to the activit ies mentioned above have been identified by the Issuer by performing a robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment. 29 The assessment must be proportionate to the scale of the activity and its expe cted lifespan, such that: • for investments into activities with an expected lifespan of less than 10 years, the assessment is performed, at least by using downscaling of climate projections; • for all other activities, the assessment is performed using high resolution, state - of - the - a rt climate projections across a range of future scenarios consistent with the expected lifetime of the activity, including, at least, 10 to 30 years climate projections scenarios for major investm ents. The issuer has developed a plan to implement adaptat ion solutions to reduce material physical climate risks to the selected activit ies under this framework . • For new activities the Issuer ensures that adaptation solutions do not adversely affect the adaptation efforts or the level of resilience to physical climate risks of other people, of nature, of assets and of other economic activities and are consistent with local, sectoral, regional or national adaptation efforts. • For activities that involve upgrading or altering existing assets or processes , the Issuer must implement adaptation solutions identified within five years from the start of the activity . In addition, selected adaptation solutions must not adversely affect the adaptation efforts or the level of resilience to physical climate risks o f other people, of nature, of assets and of other economic activities and are consistent with local, sectoral, regional or national adaptation efforts. No assessments / policies available currently . Not Aligned 29 The EU Delegated Act identifies several climate related risk and classifies them into chronic or acute risks, Chronic risks i nclude - c hanging temperature (air, freshwater, marine water) , c hanging wind patterns , c hanging precipitation patterns and types , c oastal erosion, heat stress, o cean acidification , sea - level rise, and s olifluction . Acute risks pertain to – heat/ cold wave, wildfire, cyclone, hurricane, tornado, storm, drought, landslide, flood, and glacial lake outburst. For a complete list of climate related risk please refer to Annex 6, at: https://ec.europa.eu/finance/docs/level - 2 - measures/taxonomy - regulation - delega ted - act - 2021 - 2800 - impact - assessment_en.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 14 Table 6 Criteria for the Protection and R estoration of B iodiversity and E cosystems DNSH Criteria Alignment with DNSH Criteria • An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) or screening has been completed, for activities within the Union, in accordance with Directive 2011/92/EU. For activities in third countries, an EIA has been completed in accordance with equivalent national provisions or international standards. • Where an EIA has been carried out, the required mitigation and compensation measures for protec ting the environment are implemented. • For sites/operations located in or near biodiversity - sensitive areas (including the Natura 2000 network of protected areas, UNESCO World Heritage sites and Key Biodiversity Areas, as well as other protected areas), an appropriate assessment, where applicable, has been conducted and based on its conclusions the necessary mitigation measures are implemented. Northland does not have a formal policy that mandates it to conduct EIA for all its projects. However, they have a comm itment to avoid or minimize the potential impacts/concerns during early development stages of its projects by making adjustments to the planned layout of the proposed project . Northland has communicated that “ a voidance” , which refers to not undertaking the project, is one of the first approaches they take in cas e a negative impact or concern is raised during project development stage , followed by mitigation measures to minimize negative impacts where possible . Northland monitor s impacts on biodiversity at certain projects sites . The Company participates in habitat restoration and/or compensation plantings for key habitat lost as a result of its developments . Measures include relocation of certain species of birds, providing habitat restorati on and replacement, improving site vegetation to provide breeding habitat and movement corridors, and modifying construction schedules to avoid specific wildlife breeding seasons as well as use of specific technologies such as a bat deterrent system to min imize impact of its projects on wildlife . The C ompany has provide d examples of the implementation and monitoring systems it has in place at specific sites, and has communicated that these are indicative of the level of ambition the Company aims to take br oadly across its project management. Partially Aligned,- © Sustainalytics 20 20 Append ix 1 : Green B ond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Northland Power Inc. Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: December 17 , 202 1 Publication date of review publication: Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBP: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selecti on ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible category for the use of proceeds – Renewable Energy – is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles 2021 and the Green Loan Principles 2021 . Sustainalytics considers that investments in projects in the eligible category will lea d to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals, specifically SDG 7.,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 16 Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☒ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBP ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBP: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): Northland Power (“Northland” or the “Company”) has an Investment Co mmittee that will be responsible for identifying new eligible projects while its operations and asset management groups will identify expenditures related to upgrades and maintenance of assets. Final project selection will be made by Northland’s ESG Steeri ng Committee. Northland’s company - level environmental and social risk mitigation processes are applicable to all allocation decisions made under the Framework. Sustainalytics considers the risk management systems to be strong and the project selection proc ess to be in line with market practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☐ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 17 ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Proceeds raised under the Framework will be deposited to Northland’s operating account (or the account of a subsidiary in the case of green financing by a special - purpose project entity), monitored by Northland’s Global Treasury team and reported to the ESG Steering Committee. Unallocated proceeds will be held in cash reserves, and Northland commits to allocating proceeds within 24 months of any issuance. Northland intends to refinance eligible projects with a loo k - back period of 36 months, and refinance capital expenditure with no look - back period, Sustainalytics views this in line with market practice. Sustainalytics considers the management of proceeds process to be in line with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): Northland intends to report on its website on an annual basis. Allocation reporting will include a list of eligible projects, amount of proceeds allocated by project category, and the balance of any unallocated proceeds. Impact reporting will include metrics such as installed net renewable energy capacity (MW), renewable energy production (MWh) and expected GHG reduced (tonnes of CO2 emissions). Su stainalytics views Northland Power Inc.’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Use of proceeds reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 18 Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☒ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify): Installed net renewable energy capacity (MW) , Renewable energy production (MWh) Frequency ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☒ Other (please specify): Information published on website (www.northlandpower.com) ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) SPECIFY OTHER EXT ERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 19 ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second - Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second - Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second - Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of proje cts intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with inte rnal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s intern al tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may v erify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scena rio. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 20 Disclaimer Copyright ©202 1 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalytics, or provided that appropriate c itation and acknowledgement is ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project; (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice or a prospectus; (3) cannot be interpret ed as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) ha ve not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up - to - dateness or fitness for a particular purp ose. The information and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. Sustainalytics accepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the information, data or opinions contained here in, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list o f our third - party data providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal - disclaimers . The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion Northland Power Green Financ ing Framework - 21 About Sustain alytics , a Morningstar Company Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. The firm works wit h hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their investment processes. The world’s foremost issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institut ions to governments, also rely on Sustainalytics for credible second - party opinions on green, social and sustainable bond frameworks. In 2020, Climate Bonds Initiative named Sustainalytics the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” for the third consecutive year. The firm was also recognized by Environmental Finance as the “Largest External Reviewer” in 2020 for the second consecutive year. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com .