© Sustainalytics 20 21 Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Vía Célere Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful and aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018. Thi s assessment is based on the following: The eligible categor y for the use of proceeds , Green Buildings , aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples 2018. Sustainalytics considers that the eligible category will lead to posi tive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically SDG 11. Vía Célere has established a Green Bond Committee (the “Committee”) in charge of the project evaluation and selection. The C ommittee will be responsible for ensuring the alignment of the projects with the eligibility criteria set in the Framework. Sustainalytics considers the project selection process in line with market practice. Vía Célere ’ s Finance Department will be responsible for the management of proceeds. Vía Célere intends to reach full allocation within 24 months a fter issuance. Pending allocation, the proceeds may be invested in cash or cash equivalents or used to repay existing borrowings un der general credit facilities of Vía Célere following the relevant internal treasury policies. This is in line with market practice. Vía Célere intends to report on allocation of proceeds on its website, on an annual basis, until full allocati on. The allocation reporting will include the total am ount allocated to projects, the share of financing vs. refinancing, and unallocated proceeds. In addition, Vía Célere is committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics, such as energy consumption red uction (in kWh) or emission reduction (in tons of CO 2 e ). Sustainalytics views Vía Célere’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Evaluation D ate M a rch 3 rd , 2021 Issuer Locatio n Madrid , Spain Report Sections Introduction ................................ .................. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ................................ 3 Appendices ................................ .................. 7 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Evan Bruner (Amsterdam) Project Manager evan.bruner@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 0027 Charles Cassaz (Amsterdam) Project Lead charles.cassaz@sustain alytics.com (+31) 20 205 02 09 Aoife McCarthy (Amsterdam) Project Support aoife.mccarthy@sustainlaytics.com (+31) 20 299 46 90 Jean - Claude Berthelot (Amsterdam) Client Relations susfinance.emea@ sustainalytics.com (+44) 20 3880 0193,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 2 Introduction Vía Célere SL ( or the “Company”) is a real estate company dedicated to the development, investment, and management of residential assets. Headquartered in Madrid, the Company has developed more than 6,000 homes since its creation in 2007. Vía Célere has developed the Vía Célere Green Bond Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it intends to issue green bonds and use the proceeds to finance and /or refinance, in whole or in part, existing and future residential building ass ets that are expected to contribute to the shift to a low - carbon economy in Spain. The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in one area: 1. Green Buildings Vía Célere engaged Sustainalytics to review the Vía Célere Green Bond Framewo rk , dated February 2021 , and provide a S econd - P arty O pinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) . 1 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 2 Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics ’ Second - Party Opinion Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent 3 opinion on the alignment of the reviewed Framework with the current market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories are credible and impactful. As part of the Second - Party Opinion, Sustainalyt ics assessed the following: • T he Framework’s alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2018, as administered by ICMA ; • The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds ; and • The alignment of the issuer ’ s sustainability strategy and perfo rmance and sustainability risk management in relation to the use of proceeds . For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.7.1 , wh ich is informed by market practice and Sustainalytics ’ expertise as an ESG research provider. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Vía Célere ’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of thei r business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and report ing aspects of the Framework. Vía Célere representatives have confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of Vía Célere to ensure that the informa tion provided is complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics with all relevant information and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely manner. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant pub lic documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of th e Framework and should be read in conjunction with that Framework. Any update of the present Second - Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engage ment conditions between Sustainalytics and Vía Célere . Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion, w hile reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second - Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible projects expected to be financed with bond proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The measurement and reporting of the impact achiev ed through projects financed under the Framework is the responsibility of the Framework owner. In addition, the Second - Party Opinion opines on the potential allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee the realised allocation of the bond proceeds towards eligible activities. 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered b y the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - social - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - princi ples - gbp/ . 2 The Vía Célere Green Bond Framework is available on Vía Célere’s website at: https://www.viacelere.com/innovacion 3 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustai nalytics and ensuring analyst independence is paramount to produc ing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has therefore put in place a robust conflict management framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of commercial an d research (an d engagement) teams, data protection and systems separation. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific commercial outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency.,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 3 No information provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second - Party Opinion shall be considered as being a statement, representation, warrant or argument , either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability or completeness of any facts or statements and related surrounding circumstances that Vía Célere has made ava ilable to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second - Party Opinion . Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Vía Célere Green Bond Fra mework Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Vía Célere Green Bond Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns to the four core components of the GBP . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of Vía Célere ’s G reen B ond F ramework : • Use of Pro ceeds: - The eligible categor y , Green Buildings , is aligned with those recognized by the GBP. Sustainalytics notes that the proceeds of the green bonds issued under the Framework activities are expected to increase the energy effi ci ency of buildings in Spai n and advance the shift to a low - carbon economy. - Vía Célere may finance residential developments achiev ing EPC labels A, B, or C . The expectation is that buildings with these EPC ratings will perform in the top 15% of the most energy - efficient comparable buildings in the local context. 4 Sustainalytics consi ders these criteria credible and well - placed for inclusion in green bonds. • Project Evaluation and Selection: - Vía Célere has established a Green Bond Committee (the “Committee”) in charge of project eval uation and selection. The Committee comprises the CFO , Company Secretary, Head of Build to Sell, Head of Build to Rent, or their respective delegates. The Committee is responsible for ensuring the alignment of the projects with the eligibility criteria set in the Framework. The Committee will meet on a semia nnual basis to review proposed allocations. - Based on these elements, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market practice. • Management of Proceeds: - Vía Célere ’ s Finance Department wil l be responsible for the management of proceeds. The Finance Department will establish a register of eligible projects and track the proceeds using a portfolio approach. Vía Célere intends to reach full allocation within 24 months af ter issuance. Pending a llocation, the proceeds may be invested in cash or cash equivalents or used to repay existing borrowings under general credit facilities of Vía Célere following the relevant internal treasury policies. - Based on these elements, Sustainalytics conside rs thi s process to be in line with market practice. • Reporting: - Vía Célere intends to report on allocation of proceeds on its website, on an annual basis , until full allocation. The allocation reporting will in clude the total amount allocated to projects, the sha re of financing vs. refinancing, and unallocated proceeds. - In addition, Vía Célere is committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics, including energy consumption reduction (in kWh), carbon emission reduction (in tons of CO 2 e), water consumption reudct ion (in m3), and amount of waste diverted from landfills (in tons). Sustainalytics views Vía Célere ’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. - Based on these elements, Sustainalytics conside rs this process to be in line with market practice. 4 As of December 2019 , 5 .57 % of the existing buildings obtained an EPC labels A, B, or C based on emissions intensity performance. Mini sterio de la T ransición Ecológica , “Estado de la Certificacion Energética de los Edificios ”, (2019), at: https://energia.gob.es/desarrollo/EficienciaEnergetica/CertificacionEnergetica/Documentos/Documentos%20informativos/Informe_s eguimiento_Certif icacion_En ergetica_Edificios_8 - Diciembre_2019.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 4 Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 Sustainalytics has determined that the V ía Célere Green Bond Framework aligns to the four core components of the GBP . For de tailed information please refer to Appendix 1 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Strategy of Vía Célere Contribution of framework to Vía Célere ’s sustainability strategy Vía Célere demonstrates a strong commitment to sustainability in its business operations by calculating and mitigating CO 2 emissions during construction, monitoring and reducing its water consumption, and engaging stakeholders. 5 The Company’s overarching corporate s trategy called “ Célere Cities” aligns with the Company’s sustainability agenda through the following key pill ars (i) CO 2 and Cities, (ii) Water and Cities and (iii) Future Cities. 5 The first pillar focuses on reducing the carbon footprint of the Company, the second pillar’s focal point is water consumption, while the t hird pillar targets stakeholder engagement. Regarding the first pillar, “CO 2 and Cities”, Vía Célere ’s primary objective is improving the energy performance of it s newly constructed buildings. 5 A study was conducted by the Obse rvatory for t he Environmental Sustainability in Residential Buildings sponsored by Vía Célere and the Autonomous University of Madrid (UAM), with the aim of providing new tools to control the impact of the construction sector on the environment, with parti cular focus on residential developments. The study estimated that the carbon footprint of the Company’s residential developments is 441kg of CO 2 for every built square meter. 6 To reduce operational emissions, Vía Célere adopted passive and active measures , such as more efficient thermal envelope design, the use of rene wable energy sources and LED lighting, and the installation of energy - efficient lifts . 7 To date, Vía Célere ’s completed developments have saved 8,210 tons of CO 2 and 30 million kWh of energy compared to if they ha d obtained the lowest energy rating required for new buildings in Spain . 7 In 2020, 80% of Vía Célere ’s completed projects obtained an EPC rating A or B. 7 The Company estimated that new developments emitted up to 89% less CO 2 than residential buildings with an F rating. 7 , 8 Sustainalytics notes that the projects financed under the Framework may assist the Company in improving the energy performance of its new residential developments. The second pillar, “Water and Cities”, was established after V ía Célere undertook similar research with the UAM in a study to estimate the water footprint of residential construction projects. Th e findings concluded that each residential built square meter of water generates a water footprint of five cubic meters . 9 T he Compan y established a target in 2019 to recover 20% of its water footprint through construction projects in a year and has committ ed to return a percentage of its water footprint each year by supporting social projects to improving water management. 10 Within the third pillar , the Company facilitates various stakeholder engagement initiatives through the research projects with the UAM , to create a model accessible for all stakeholders to measure environmental impact in construction projects. These initia tives aim to engage citizens and young people in improving urban sustainability. 11 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Vía Céler e ’s Green Bond Framework is aligned with the C ompany’s overall sustainability strategy and initiatives and will further th e Company’s action on its key environmental priorities. Well - positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated wi th the projects While Sustainalytics recognizes that the net proceeds from the bond s issued under the Framework will be directed towards eligible projects that are recognized by the GBP to have positive environmental impact, Sustainalytics is aware that s uch eligible projects could also lead to negative environmental and social 5 Vía Célere , “ Célere Cities ”, at: https://www.viacelere.com/en/celere - cities 6 Vía Célere , “Every square metre built in residential construction accounts for 441kg of CO2”, (2020), at: https://www.viacelere.com/en/corporativas/via - celere - present - report - carbon - footp rint 7 Doc uments provided by Vía Célere . 8 Estimated calculation of the energy savings of a typical home with 95 m2 of useable space and an A rati ng compared to a typical home with an F rating, according to the “Energy Efficiency Rating of Buildings” publ ished by the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism in July 2015, and other regulations that supplement it and/or that may replace it. 9 Vía Céle re , “ estimación de la huella hídr ic a de una promoción residencial ” (2019), at: https://www.viacelere.com/sites/default/files/2020 - 06/Informe_ViaC elere_Huella_H%C3%ADdrica.pdf 10 Vía Célere , “Water Footprint Report”, (2019), a t: https://www.viacelere.com/sites/default/files/2020 - 06/Info rme_ViaCelere_Huella_H%C3%ADdrica.pdf 11 Vía Célere , “Informe Huella Carbono ”, ( 2019), at: Informe Huella Carbono.pdf (viacelere.com),Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 5 outcomes . Some key environmental and social risks associated with the eligible projects, could include occupational health and safety, community relations/stakeholder participation, land use and biodiversity issues associated with buildings development, emissions, e ffluents, and waste generated in construction . Sustainalytics is of the opinion that is able to manage and/or mitigate potential risks through implementation of the follo wing: • Regarding worker health and safety, Vía Célere ’s C ode of C onduct outlines h ealth and safety requirements for workers and outlines the Company’s commitment to monitoring and managing security measures, rules and procedures through various health and safety training programs for its employees . 12 For construction sites, the Spanish Law 31/9523 provides prevention and safety regulations for contractors. 13 Chapter V of said Law regulates in detail, the rights of consultation and participation of workers in relation to issues affecting safety and health. In addition, the Code of Conduct applies to the Company’s collaborators, including suppliers and contractors. As such, contractors must comply with the necessary measures to ensure worker health and safety. • E nvironmental sustainability is one of the key pillars outlined within the Compan y’s Code of Conduct and this code ens ures that all relevant laws and regulations are adhered to. All projects undertaken by V ía Célere must comply with Spanish environmental re gulations that require public and private projects to ensure environmental protection and responsibility, through environmental impact assessments and environmental permits, under the Spanish Environmental Law. 14 An nex II of Law 21/2013 requires that the co mpetent authority considers an environmental impact assessment depending on the significance of the effects of the project on the environment. In regard to habitat and biodiversity, Law 42/2007 (Natural Heritage an d Biodiversity) sets out a regulatory regi me for the “conservation, sustainable use, improvement and restoration of natural heritage and biodiversity.” 14 Sustainalytics considers this law and the ensuring processes to be robust, and sufficient to mitigat e multiple environmental risks. • Regarding waste management, Law 26/2007 on Environmental Liability (Environmental Liability Law) requires operators of potentially contaminating activities to (i) prevent, avoid and remedy any environmental damage; (ii) rep ort to the relevant authorities any damage (or any threat of damage) that it has caused; and (iii) bear the costs of remedying any actual damage. Any op erator of waste requires an administrative authorization issued by the environmental authority and each Autonomous Region is responsible for enforcing the contaminated land regime. 14 • The Equator Principles consider Spain to be a Designated Country, indicating that it is deemed to have “robust environmental and soci al governance, legislation systems and institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment. 15 Based on these policies and regulations in place , Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Vía Célere has implemented adequate measure s and is well - positioned to manage and mitigate enviro nmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible categories. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds The use of proceeds categor y is aligned with those recognized by the GBP. Sustainalytics h as focused on the below where the impact is specifical ly relevant in the local context. Importance of Green Buildings in Spain The b uilding stock accounts for 40% of final energy consumption 16 and 36% of the GHG emissions in the EU. 17 In Spain, the building sector account ed for 31% of gross final energy use in 2015. 18 As such, greening the building sector is an important part of the energy transition. Yet, around 84% of buildings in Spain are energy 12 Vía Célere , “Code of Condust, at: Via Célere's code of good conduct. We are transparent (viacelere.com) 13 Instituto Nacional de Seguridad e Higiene en el Trabajo, “LEY 31/1995, de 8 de noviembre, de Prevención de Riesgos Laborales. BOE nº 269 10 - 11 - 1995”, at: https://www.boe.es/buscar/act.php?id=BOE - A - 1995 - 24292 14 Lavilla J. J., “Environmental law and practice in Spain: overview”, Thomson Reut ers, at: https://u k.practicallaw.thomsonreuters.com/0 - 521 - 6274?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&firstPage=true&comp=pluk&bhcp=1 15 Equator Principles, “Designated Countries”, https://equator - principles.com/designated - countries/. 16 Bruhin , A., et al., (201 8), “High energy performing buildings: Support for innovation and market uptake under Horizon 2020 energy efficiency”, Europe an Commission, at: https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/d8e3702d - c782 - 11e8 - 9424 - 01aa75ed71a1/language - en/format - PDF/source77709912 17 European Comissions, “Energy performance of buildings directive” , (2019) at: Energ y performance of buildings directive | Energy (europa.eu) 18 Ministerio de Fomento, “Actualización de la estrategia a largo plazo para la rehabilitación energética en el sector de la edi ficación en España”, (2017), at: https://www.fomento.gob.es/recursos_mfom/pdf/24003A4D - 449E - 4B93 - 8CA5 - 7217CFC61802/143398/20170524REVISIONESTRATEGIA.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 6 inefficient . 19 Additionally , 55% of the Spanish building stoc k was built prior to 1980 and 21% is more than 50 years old . The r enovation of existing building s is therefore key to achiev ing energy saving s. According to the European Commission, b uilding renovations could lower overall energy consumption by 5 - 6% and re duce CO 2 emissions by approximately 5%. 20 While renovation is key to achieving energy savings in the existing building stock, only 0.4 - 1.2% of the building stock in the EU is renovated each year . Given the slow path of refurbishments, the need for energy e fficient new buildings is imperative. The European Performance of Buildings Directive requires all new buildings from 2021 to be nearly zero - energy buildings (NZEB) . Yet, i n 2021 Spain does not yet have any official legislation supporting NZEB . 21 T he role o f the construction industry is key to in fluenc ing the evolution of countries ’ energy consumption and CO 2 emissions. In this context, Sustainalytics views Vía Célere ’s investments in residential energy efficient buildings as making a positive contribution t owards energy efficiency improvements in the building sector, while supporting Spain in reducing its carbon footprint. Alignment with/ contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in Sep tember 2015 by the United Nations General Ass embly and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. The bond(s) issued under the Vía Célere Green Bond Framework advances the following SDG and target: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Green Buildings 11. Sustainable C ities and Communities 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management Conclusion Vía Célere has developed the Vía Célere Green Bo nd Framework under which it will issue green bonds and the use of proceeds to finance energy - efficient residential assets. Sustainalytics considers that the assets funded by the green bond proceed s are expected to have provide positive environmental impact . The Vía Célere Green Bond Framework outlines a process by which proceeds will be tracked, allocated, and managed, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocation and impact of th e use of proceeds. Furthermore, Sustainalytics believes that the Vía Célere Green Bond Framework is aligned with the overall sustainability strategy of the C ompany and that the green use of proceed s category will contribute to the advancement of the UN Sus tainable Development Goa l 11. Additionally, Sustainalytics i s of the opinion that Vía Célere has adequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks commonly associated with the eligible projects funded by the use of proceeds. Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Vía Cé lere is well - positioned to issue green bonds and that th e Vía Célere Green Bond Framework is robust, transparent, and in alignment with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018. 19 The Interreg Europe, “World Ene rgy Efficiency Day: challenges in Spain”, (2018), at: World Energy Efficiency Day: challenges in Spain | Inte rreg Europe 20 European Commission, “Energy performance of buildings”, (2019) at: https://ec.europa.eu/energy/en/topics/energy - efficiency/ene rgy - performan ce - of - buildings/overview 21 European Commission, “NZEB”, at: https://ec.europa.eu/energy/content/nzeb - 24_en,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 7 Append ix Append ix 1 : Green B ond / Green Bond Programme - E xternal Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Vía Célere Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : Vía Célere Green Bond Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: March 3 rd , 2021 Publication date of review publication: Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their align ment with the GBP: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (ple ase specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above. Section 3. Detail ed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review.,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 8 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible categor y for the use of proceeds – Green Buildings – aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples 2018. Sustainalytics considers that the eligible category will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically SDG 11. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☐ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☐ Clean transportation ☐ Sustai nable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☒ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBP ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBP: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUA TION AND SELECTION Overall comment on section (if applicable): Vía Célere has established a Green Bond Committee (the “Committee”) in charge of the project evaluation and selection. The Committee will be responsible for ensuring the alignment of the proje cts with the eligibility criteria set in the Framework. Sustain alytics considers the project selection process in line with market practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☒ Documented proce ss to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 9 Information on Responsibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Select ion criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : Vía Célere ’ s Finance Department will be responsible for the management of proceeds. Vía Célere intends to reach full allocation within 24 months after issuance. Pending allocation, the proceeds may be invested in cash or cash equivalents or used to repay existing borrowings under general credit facilities of Vía Célere following the relevant internal treasury policies. This is in line with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manner ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to futur e investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☐ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements ☐ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): Vía Célere intends to report on allocation of proceeds on its website, on an annual basis, until full allocation. The allocation reporting will include the total amount allocated to projects, the s hare of financing vs. refinancing, and unallocated proceeds. In addit ion, Vía Célere is committed to reporting on relevant impact metrics, such as energy consumption reduction (in kWh) or emission reduction (in tons of CO 2 e). Sustainalytics views Vía Céler e’s allocation and impact reporting as aligned with market practice. Use of proceeds reporting : ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 10 Information reported: ☒ Allocated amou nts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Proportion of proceeds allocated to refinancing, and unallocated proceeds. Frequency : ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting : ☐ Proj ect - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☒ Energy Savings ☒ Decrease in water use ☒ Other ESG indicato rs (please specify): Amount of waste diverted from landfill (in tonnes). Frequency ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☒ Information published in sustainability re port ☐ Information published in ad hoc documents ☐ Other (please specify): ☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication i n the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.),Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 11 SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ C ertification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second - Party Opinion: An institution with environmental experti se, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second - Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented with in the institution to ensure the independence of the Second - Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, poli cy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of proje cts intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with inte rnal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of under lying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s intern al tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or ali gnment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may v erify consistency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated G reen Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scena rio. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 12 Disc laimer Copyright ©202 1 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. The information, methodologies and opinions contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data), and may be made available to third parties only in the form and format disclosed by Sustainalytics, or provided that appropriate c itation and acknowledgement is ensured. They are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project; (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice or a prospectus; (3) cannot be interpret ed as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations nor of its creditworthiness; and/or (5) ha ve not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure. These are based on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warranted as to their merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up - to - dateness or fitness for a particular purp ose. The information and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. Sustainalytics accepts n o liability for damage arising from the use of the information, data or opinions contained here in, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list o f our third - party data providers and their respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal - disclaimers . The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the Engli sh language and translated versions, the English language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion Vía Célere Green Bond Frame work 13 About Sustain alytics , a Morningstar Company Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports investors around the world w ith the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. The firm works wit h hundreds of the world’s leading asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and assessments into their investment processes. The world’s foremost issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institut ions to governments, also rely on Sustainalytics for credible second - party opinions on green, social and sustainable bond frameworks. In 2020, Climate Bonds Init iative named Sustainalytics the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” for the third consecutive year. The firm was also recognized by Environmental Finance as the “Largest External Reviewer” in 2020 for the second consecutive year. For mo re information, visit www.sustainalytics.com .