© Sustainalytics 20 20 Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Finance Framework Evaluation Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Volkswagen Green Finance Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the four core components of the ICMA Green Bond Principles 2018 and LMA Green Loan Principles 2018 . This assessment is based on the following: The eligible category for the use of proceeds is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Pri nciples and Green Loan Principles . Sustainalytics considers that Clean Transportation will lead to positive environmental impacts and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals 9 and 11. Volkswagen’s Green Finance Committee (G F C) will eval uate and select the eligible g reen projects to approve whether the projects are aligned with the Framework. The GF C is comprised of cross - functional representatives from Group Treasury, Sustainability Department, Group Accounting, Group Controlling, Group Legal and business units developing eligible projects. This process is in line with market practice. Volkswagen will allocate the proceeds to an Eligible Green Proj ect Portfolio. Volkswagen will track expenditure and development costs using internal reporting systems. Pending full allocation or reallocation, the unallocated proceeds will be invested in cash or other liquid marketable instruments. This process is in line with market practice. Volkswagen intends to annually publish allocation and impact reporting of proceeds on the Volk s w agen Group’s website until full allocation. Allocation reporting will include the balance of allocated and unallocated proceeds as well as the number of new an d existing projects. In addition, impact reporting will disclose data of CO2 emissions avoided in the use and production phases, along with the description of the green projects and results of Life Cycle Assessment . Sustainalytics views Volkswagen’s alloca tion and impact reporting plans to be aligned with market practice. Evaluation date March 2020 Issuer Locatio n Wolfsburg, Germany Report Sections Introduction ................................ ............. 2 Sustainalytics’ Opinion ............................. 3 Appendices ................................ ............. 8 For inquir i es , contact the Sustainable Finance Solutions p roject t eam : Lili Hocke (Amsterdam) Project Manager lili.hocke@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 00 40 Evan Bruner (Amsterdam) Project Support evan.bruner@sustainalytics.com (+31) 20 205 0027 Jean - Claude Berthelot (Amsterdam) Client Relations susfinance.emea@sustainalytics.com +44 20 3880 0193,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 2 Introduction Volkswagen AG (VW) is an automobile company based in Wolfsburg, Germany. Its service s mainly include the development and production of vehicles and components, as well as the sale of vehicles. The product segments consist of passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, power engineering and financial services that are related to mobility services. VW has developed the Volkswagen Green Finance Framework (the “ F ramework ”) under which it intends to issue green debt instruments (bonds and loans) and use the proceeds to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, existing or future projects that contribute to clean or climate - neutral mobility , specifically through the development and implementation of the Modular - Electrification Toolkit ( MEB) technology for electric vehicles . The F ramework defines eligibility criteria in one area : 1. Clean Transportation VW engaged Sustainalytics to review the Volkswagen Green Finance Framework , dated March , 20 20 and provide a second - party opinion on the F ramework ’s environmental credentials and its alignment with the Green Bond Principles 201 8 (GBP) and the Green Loan Principles 2018 (GLP) . 1 This F ramework has been published in a separate document . 2 As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of VW’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of VW’s green bond s and loans . Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non - public information. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Volkswagen Green Finance Framework and should be read in conjunction with th at F ramework. 1 The Green Bond Principles are administered by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green - soci al - and - sustainability - bonds/green - bond - principles - gbp/ 2 The Volkswagen Group Green Bond Framework is available on Volkswagen’s website at: https://www.volkswagenag.com/en/InvestorRe lations.html,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 3 Sustainalytics’ Opinion Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Volkswagen Gre en Finance Framework Summary Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Volkswagen ’s Green Finance Framework is credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 and Green Loan Principles 2018 . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of Volkswagen’s Green Finance Framework : • Use of Proceeds: - The use of proceeds category – namely Clean Transportation – is recognized as impactful by the GBP 2018 and GLP 2018 . The eligible projects in this category provide meaningful environmental contributions. Sustainalytic s views VW’s allocation of proceeds to be foster ing innovation towards sustainable transportation and cities . - The eligible proceeds will be allocated to support the development of clean mobility, through the development and manufacture of the Modular - Electrification Toolkit (MEB) technology for electric v ehicles and e - charging infrastructure . MEB is a platform that is exclusively used for electric vehicles. VW clarified the fo llowing details of the MEB related use of p r o ceeds : ▪ D evelopment that is linked directly to the MEB ▪ Manufacture of the MEB and of el ectric vehicles and their key components related to the MEB ▪ Dedicated e - charging infrastructure - Sustainalytics positively notes that the proceeds are exclusively used for electric vehicles or charging infrastructure for electric vehicles , thus avoiding the production of components that could be used for conventional cars. In addition, Sustainalytics notes that VW plans to have all issuances CBI certified. - VW uses a three - year lookback peri od and intends to have full allocation on issuance. • Project Evaluation and Selection: - VW has established a Green Finance Committee (G F C) which will evaluate and select the eligible green bond and loan projects . The GF C is comprised of cross - functional representatives from Group Treasury, Sustainability Department, Group Accounting, Group Controlling, and Group Legal . The Business Units that develop Eligible Green Projects are invited to the GFC Committee as guests. The GFC meets at least on an annual basis. - Based on a formal establishment of a dedicated committee formed by cross - department and management members, Sustainalytics considers the project evaluation and selection process to be in line with market practice . • Management of Proceeds: - VW will manage the green bond and loan proceeds in a portfolio approach. All eligible project proceeds will be allocated to the Eligible Green Project Portfolio based on the evaluation and selection process stated above. The expen diture and development costs will all be tracked using VW’s internal reporting system. Sustain al ytics positively highlights that the process for tracking has been reviewed by an external auditor based on ISAE 3000 (limited assurance). - Pending full allocation , re - allocation, or unallocated proceeds will be invested in cash or other liquid marketable instruments. - Sustainalytics cons iders this to be in line with market practice . • Reporting: - VW intends to publish annually the allocation and impact reporting of the proceeds until full allocation. The balance of allocated and unallocated proceeds as well as the number of new and existing projects will be disclosed in the allocation reports. CO ₂ emissions avoided in the use and production phases, along with the description of the green projects and results of Life Cycle Analysis are to be disclosed in impact reports. - Sustainalytics conside rs VW’s allocation and impact reporting to be in line with market practice. In addition, Sustainalytics note s positively that VW seeks to us e an independent auditor to verify its allocation reporting.,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 4 Alignment with Green Bond Principles 201 8 and Green Loan Principles 2018 Sustainalytics has determined that VW’s G reen Finance Framework aligns to the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 201 8 and Green Loan Principles 2018 . For detailed information please refer to Appendix 1 : Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. Section 2: Sustainability Performance and Strategy of Volkswagen Group Contribution of framework to VW ’s sustainability performance and strategy In recent years, VW sharpened its sustainability strategy TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 + 3 to address key environmental issues re g a r ding VW ’s fleet and own operations . Sustainalytics highlights below the targets and performance of VW that speak to the company’s position as a credible green bond an d loan issuer and demonstrates how the company’s sustainability strategy aligns with the issuance of green bonds and loans . VW targets a 30% carbon footprint reduction for its passenger cars and light duty vehicles by 2025 and carbon neutrality throughout its product fleet and production facilities by 2050 with Roadmap E. 4 The emission reduction is aimed to be achieved through amongst others : 5 - Reducing CO 2 emission of the European new - car fleet from 123 g/km in 2018 to 95 g/km by 202 1 ; - By 2020, reduce g reenhouse gas emissions from energy supply for production facilities in Germany by 40% per unit produced compared to 2010 emission levels , and ac hieve CO 2 neutral hand - over to customers, through the use of renewable energy , reduced operational emissions and emission compensation ; - By 2025 reduce the e nvironmental impact per unit by 50 % compared to 2010 , including energy, water consumption, waste for disposal, and emission levels ; - By 2025 , achieve a 30% CO 2 reduction per vehicle over the lifecycl e compared to 2015 (Decarbonization Index) . 6 VW plans an investment of minimum EUR 60 billion , comprising 21% of its 2018 group annual revenue , 7 in battery cell procurement in the coming years, 8 as well as 70 pure battery - electric vehicles and 30 plug - in hybrid models to be sold by the group by 202 8 . The company aims to provid e completely carbon neutral vehicle fleets by 2050. 9 VW discloses its CO 2 emissions from vehicle produc tion . Between 2017 and 2018, the CO 2 emissions in kilogram per produced vehicle (Scope 1 and 2) was reduced by 10.89%. Disclosure of the CO 2 fleet emissions was also implemented in 2018 categorized by region : EU, China, Brazil, and the USA respectively. 10 Given VW’s quantitative goals and corporate - wide strategy , Sustainalytics is of the view that investments in the production of electric veh icles financed through its g reen bonds and loans will further support the group in advancing its sustainability strategy. Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects While clean transportation is recognized as an impactful green use of proceed, Sustainalytics acknowledges that the eligible projects have potential environmenta l and social risks related to workers ’ health and safety as well as emissions from production processes, and rare earth elements use in batteries and land use change for related infrastructure. 3 VW Strategy TOGETHER 2025 ⁺ . Retrieved from https://www.volkswagenag.com/en/group/strategy.html 4 Idem . Roadmap has gone through several updates: released in 2017, revised in 2018 and published in March 2019 5 VW Sustainability Annual Report 2018: https://www.volkswagenag.com/presence/nachhaltigkeit/documents/sustainability - report/2018/Nonfinancial_Report_2018_e.pdf 6 Volkswagen’s Approach to Sustainabil ity and Decarbonization: https://www.volkswagenag.com/presence/investorrelation/publications/presentations/2019/09_september/2019 - 09 - 20_ESG_Pfitzner.pdf 7 VW AG Annual Report 2018 to be retrieved from https://www.volkswagenag.com/presence/investorrelation/publications/annual - reports/2019/volkswagen/en/Y_2018_e.pdf 8 VW did not communicate a time horizon for the investment. 9 VW Sustainability Annual Report 2018: https://www.volkswa genag.com/presence/nachhaltigkeit/documents/sustainability - report/2018/Nonfinancial_Report_2018_e.pdf 10 The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard classifies companies’ GHG emissions into three scopes. Further details to be found at https://ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/ standards_supporting/FAQ.pdf,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 5 The Risk Management and Internal Control System (RMS/ICS) st ructure established within VW is based on the internationally recognized COSO 11 Enterprise Risk Management Framework standard. The risk management system covers environmental matters, employee matters, and human right s related - matters , among others. The RM S/ICS system also incorporates the Three Lines of Defense Model required by the European Confederation of Institutes of Internal Auditing (ECIIA). The overall system entails guidelines and procedure s to be conducted upon risk occurrence . 12 Regarding employee h ealth and s afety aspects , VW has a strategy in place that , among others, r equires all Volkswagen Group production sites to comply with the ISO 45001 standards and more specific Group r equirements. The Volkswagen Checkup, an on - site free - of - charge health screening programme , is also implemented for all VW employees internationally. 13 The batteries in electric cars require rare earth metals, some of which bear risks related to human rights in the supply c hain. VW’s “ Group requirements regarding sustainability in its relationships with business partners” and “Code of Conduct for business partners" , prohibit child and forced labour and requir e VW’s suppliers to disclose i nformation regarding smelters or refineries used . T he VW Group expect s “ suppliers to avoid using raw materials from smelters or refineries that do not meet the requirements of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict - Affected and High - Risk Areas. ” 14 In addition, VW confirmed that it will check suppliers’ compliance with the requirements via its Sustainability Rating (S - Rating). Suppliers without S - Rating or with a negative S - rating cannot be awarded contracts. As such, Volkswagen Group mitigates the r isk of sourcing conflict minerals, such as Cobalt , sourced in artisanal small - scale mining. The company also signed a Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement to avoid any forms of modern slavery and human trafficking , 15 in May 2019, based on the UN Global Compact, the ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development and the conventions of the International Labour Organisation. VW has received recognition of their CO 2 reduction performance from international standards such as ISO14001 and EMAS . 101 out of 123 VW facilities worldwide ha ve been certified by ISO14001 based on their environmental standards. 44 of VW’s production locations have also been certified with their energy management systems in accordance with ISO 50001 . 16 Sustainalytics recognizes that government authorities in a number of countries worldwide have conducted and are conducting investigations of Volkswagen regarding findings of irregularities relating to nitrogen oxide ("NOx") exhaust emissions from diesel engines in certai n Volkswagen Group vehicles. Parts of the software of the engine control unit in affected vehicles were identified as an unlawful "defeat device" under US law resulting in noticeable discrepancies between the figures achieved in testing and in actual road use . C ars would appear to have lower levels of pollutants, while under normal driving conditions, the cars emitted levels of NOx 17 "from 10 to 40 times higher than allowed by law above the EPA compliant levels, depending on the type of drive cycle (e.g.., city, highway)" 18 . Over eleven million vehicles worldwide with type EA 189 diesel engines were affected. Numerous court and governmental proceedings were subsequently initiated in the USA and the rest of the world. Since 2015 Volkswagen has reco gnized expenses directly related to the diesel issue in the total amount of around EUR 30 .0bn. Nonetheless, numerous cases are still ongoing or pending in different countries , including a l awsuits filed by investors seeking approximately EUR 9.6bn in compensation from VW for allegedly omitting or delaying the immediate publication of allegedly price sensitive insider information relating to the emissions issue . After the first Notice of Violation of the U.S. Clean Air Act was issued, Volkswagen ini tiated its own internal inquiries and an external investigation. In coordination with responsible authorities, the Volkswagen Group has made and is making technical measures available designed to rectify the diesel issue in affected diesel vehicles worldwi de. In addition, Volkswagen has been working closely with an appointed independent monitor who is overseeing the implementation of measures to strengthen compliance, reporting and monitoring systems, including an enhanced ethics program within the Group. VW has implemented several initiatives to mitigate related risks, such as forming a task force, led by the group’s internal audit, to review processes, reporting and control systems, particularly on engine control unit software development, emission classi fication and escalation management, which developed rules for enhanced product compliance and 11 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 12 VW Sustainability Annual Report 2018: https://www.volkswagenag.com/presence/nachhaltigkeit/documents/sustainability - report/2018/Nonfinancial_Report_2018_e.pdf 13 Idem 14 https://www.volkswagenag.com/presence/nachhaltigkeit/documents/policy - intern/2019_Code_of_Conduct_for_Business_Partners - DE - EN.pdf 15 https://www.volkswagenag.com/presence/nachhaltigkeit/documents/policy - intern/SHTS_2019_englisch_unterschrieben.pdf 16 VW Sustainability Annual Report 2018: https://www.volkswagenag.com/presence/nachhaltigkeit/documents/sustainability - report/2018/Non financial_Report_2018_e.pdf 17 NOx: nitrogen oxides is a toxic pollutant that could affect the environment and human health. 18 United States Environmental Protection Agency Notice of Violation addressed to Volkswagen AG, Audi AG and Volkswagen Group of Amer ica, Inc., dated September 18, 2015.,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 6 conformity checks, including: a) early documentation; b) introduction of multiple controls for approvals in the product development process; c) separation of deve lopment and approval of drives; d) new bodies for cross - brand management and clarification of compliance issues. Further measures include VW’s announcement to “make comprehensive changes” to testing practices, including independent, third - party evaluation of emissions tests and real - world random tests of vehicles’ emissions in the future. Further VW developed a Sustainability Council which advises on the G roup’s sustainability and social responsibility from an independent party’s angle . They are not bound b y instructions and have extensive rights of information, consultation and initiative. Considering the measures and changes announced, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that VW has taken steps to mitigate related risks, but encourages the company to complete recalls in a timely manner, and ensure continuous compliance and further progress on strengthening internal systems (to ensure compliance and prevent recurrence) to further mitigate risks. Given VW’s internal risk management programmes and external cer tification as well as supplier policies, Sustaina lytics is of the opinion that VW is well positioned to address key environmental and social risks associated with the projects financed. Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds The use of proceeds category, clean transportation, is recognized as impactful by the GBP. Sustainalytics discusses below where the impact is specifically relevant in the local context. Impact of Electric Vehicles (EVs) on clean transportation VW intends to use its Green Bo nds’ and Loans’ proceeds for manufacturing components for electric vehicles and eligible e - charging infrastructure. In particular, Volkswagen intends to invest in Modular Electrification Toolkit (MEB, Modular electric drive matrix). The MEB is a basic comp onent of electric vehicles and the toolkit intends to increase efficiency in the manufacture of battery electric vehicles ( B EVs) and thus decrease costs of e - mobility . B EVs are solely run by an electric motor using electricity from the on - board battery. Un like conventional vehicles using an internal combustion engine, zero exhaust emissions are generated while driving B EVs. 19 Despite noteworthy technological advancements, CO 2 emissions from transport are expected to increase 60% by 2050 . 20 Moreover, t he transport sector accounted for 25% of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2016. 21 In this context, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) considers the transport ation sector to play a critical role in tackling climate cha nge , 22 indicating the importance to cut GHG emissions from the sector. While electric mobility has a big potential to cut GHG emissions from transport, to assess the total emissions of an Electric Vehicle ( EV ) during its complete lifecycle, it is crucial to know which energy source is used to charge the electric batteries. 23 According to the EU, electric mobility can help to cut GHG emissions if EVs use electricity which is at least partly generated from renewa ble sources during their entire life cycle. 24 Other influencing factors for the potential of EVs to reducing GHG emissions include the t otal mileage d uring the life cycle and disposal of the components at the end of the life cycle. Thus, t he use phase is w here the largest reduction potential take s place when comparing EVs to a conventional vehicle. 24 If the EVs are mostly charged using energy from a renewable source, the higher GHG emissions produced during the manufacturing phase can be offset during the use phase. 24 Given an expected increase in renewable energy to meet the global energy demand by one - fifth in the next five years to reach 12.4% in 2023, 25 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that electric vehicles can contribute to reduce GHG emiss ions in the transport sector. VW itself conducted a life cycle assessment to compare the carbon footprint of its current Golf TDI (Diesel) and its e - Golf, indicating that the e - Golf emits 15% less CO 2 /km on average over its lifetime . However, e ven though the share of electric car s has grown rapidly over the last decade, the electric car still accounts for less than one percent of the global car fleet of VW Group . 26 According to the International Energy 19 EEA, “Electric vehicles in Europe”, at: https://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/electric - vehicles - in - europe 20 ITF (2017). ITF Transport Outlook 2017, OECD Publishing, at: https://doi.org/10.1787/9789282108000 - en . 21 IEA, Co2 Emissions Statis tics, at: www.iea.org/statistics/co2emissions/ 22 Mobilizing Sustainable Transport For Development, at: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/2375Mobilizing%20Sustainable%20Transport.pdf 23 EEA, “Electric vehicles in Europe”, at: ht tps://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/electric - vehicles - in - europe 24 Electric Road Vehicles in the European Union: Trends, Impacts and Policies, at: h ttp://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document.html?reference=EPRS_BRI%282019%29637895 25 https://www.iea.org/renewables2018/#targetText=Hydropower%20remains%20the%20largest%20renewable,%2C%20and%20bioenergy%20(3%25 ).& targetText=Renewable%20heat%20consumption%20is%20expected,heating%20sector%20demand%20by%202023. 26 IEA (2019). Electric vehicle s: Tracking Clean Energy Progress. Retrieved from https://www.iea.org/tcep/transport/electricvehicles/,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 7 Agency’s Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) , 27 15% of the global car fleet should be electric by 2030 , 28 indicating the need to increase efficiency and availability of EVs. VW also opened the MEB technology to other manufacturers, 29 increasing the potential impact of the MEB on e - mobility. Given the importance of the transport sector and EVs in reducing global GHG emissions, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that VW ’s investments in components of EVs and related e - charging infrastru c ture can contribute to reduce GHG emissions. Alignment with/contribution to SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. Th e green bond s and loans issued under this framework advance the following SDG goals a nd targets: Use of Proceeds Category SDG SDG target Clean Transportation 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource - use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities 11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with special attention to the needs of those in vulnerable situa tions, women, children, persons with disabilities and older persons Conclusion VW has developed the Volkswagen Green Finance Framework under which it intends to issue green debt instruments (bonds and loans) and use the proceeds to finance or refinance the development and implementation of the Modular - Electrification Toolkit ( MEB) technology for electric vehicles. Sustainalytics considers the financing of the MEB to contribute to VW goals of developing fully electric vehicles and the overall availability of e - mobility. Sustaina lytics reviewed VW’s processes for project evaluation and selection, management of proceeds and reporting and considers them aligned with market practice. Furthermore, Sustainalytics h ighlights that VW’s process for management of proceeds and the allocation reporting are audited by an external independent party, which is aligned with market best practice. Given the above Sustainalytics considers the Volkswagen Green Finance Framework to be credible, robust and impactful and aligned with the GBP and GLP. 27 The IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) outlines an integrated approach to achieving internationally agreed objectives on climate change, air quality and universal access to modern energy. Retrieved from www.iea.org/weo/weomodel/ 28 IEA (2019). Electric vehicles: Tracking Clean E nergy Progress. Retrieved from https://www.iea.org/tcep/transport/electricvehicles/ 29 https://www.volkswagen - newsroom.com/en/press - releases/volkswagen - opens - electric - platform - to - third - par ties - 4732,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 8 Appendices Appendix 1 : Green Bond / Green Bond Programme - External Review Form Section 1. Basic Information Issuer name: Volkswagen AG Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework Name, if applicable : [specify as appropriate] Volkswagen Green Finance Framework Review provider’s name: Sustainalytics Completion date of this form: March 2020 Publication date of review publication: [where appropriate, specify if it is an update and add reference to earlier relevant review] Section 2 . Review overview SCOPE OF REVIEW The following may be used or ada pted, where appropriate, to summarise the scope of the review. The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBPs: ☒ Use of Proceeds ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and Selection ☒ Management of Proceeds ☒ Reporting ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER ☒ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify) : Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable) Please refer to E valuation Summary above.,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 9 Section 3. Detailed review Reviewers are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment section to explain the scope of their review. 1. USE OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : The eligible proceeds will be allocated to s upport the development of clean mobility, through the development and manufacture of the Modular - Electrification Toolkit (MEB) technology for electric vehicles and e - charging infrastructure. MEB is a platform that is exclusively used for electric vehicles. VW clarified the following details of the MEB related use of proceeds: Research and development that is linked directly to the development of the MEB Manufacture of the MEB and of electric vehicles and their key components related to the MEB Sustainalytics positively notes that the proceeds are exclusively used for electric vehicles or charging infrastructure for electric vehicles, thus avoiding the production of components that could be used for conventional cars. In addition, Sustainalytics notes that VW plans to have all issuances CBI certified. VW uses a three - year lookback period and intends to have full allocation on issuance. Use of proceeds categories as per GBP: ☐ Renewable energy ☐ Energy efficiency ☐ Pollution prevention and control ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use ☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation ☒ Clean transportation ☐ Sustainable water and wastewater management ☐ Climate change adaptation ☐ Eco - efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes ☐ Green buildings ☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected to conform with GBP categories, or other eligible areas not yet stated in GBPs ☐ Other (please specify) : If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBPs: 2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION Overall comment on secti on (if applicable): VW has established a Green Finance Committee (GFC) which will evaluate and select the eligible green bond and loan projects. The GFC is comprised of cross - functional representatives from Group Treasury, Sustainability Department, Group Accounting, Group Controlling, and Group Legal. The Business Units that develop Eligible Green Projects are invited to the GFC Committe e as guests. The GFC meets at least on an annual basis.,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 10 Based on a formal establishment of a dedicated committee formed by cross - department and management members, Sustainalytics considers the project evaluation and selection process to be in line with m arket practice. Evaluation and selection ☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental sustainability objectives ☒ Documented process to determine that projects fit within defined categories ☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects eligible for Green Bond proceeds ☒ Documented process to identify and manage potential ESG risks associated with the project ☒ Summary criteria for project evaluation and selection publicly available ☐ Other (please specify): Information on Respon sibilities and Accountability ☒ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to external advice or verification ☐ In - house assessment ☐ Other (please specify): 3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS Overall comment on section (if applicable) : VW will manage the green bond and loan proceeds in a portfolio approach. All eligible project proceeds will be allocated to the Eligible Green Project Portfolio based on the evaluation and selection process stated above. The expenditure and development cos ts will all be tracked using VW’s internal reporting system. Sustain a lytics positively highlights that the process for tracking has been reviewed by an external auditor based on ISAE 3000 (limited assurance). Pending full allocation, re - allocation, or una llocated proceeds will be invested in cash or other liquid marketable instruments. Sustainalytics considers this to be in line with market practice. Tracking of proceeds: ☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an appropriate manne r ☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : Additional disclosure: ☐ Allocations to future investments only ☒ Allocations to both existing and future investments ☐ Allocation to individual disbursements ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of disbursements,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 11 ☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of unallocated proceeds ☐ Other (please specify) : 4. REPORTING Overall comment on section (if applicable): VW intends to publish annually the allocation and impact reporting of the proceeds for the lifetime of the green debt instruments . The balance of allocated and unallocated proceeds as well as the number of new and existing projects will be disclosed in the allocation reports. CO ₂ emissions avoided in the use and production phases, along with the description of the green projects and results of Life Cycle Analysis are to be disclosed in impact reports. Sustainalytics considers VW’s allocation and impact reporting to be in line with market practice. In addition, Sustainalytics notice positively that VW seeks to use an independent auditor to verify its allocation reporting. Use of proceeds reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported: ☒ Allocated amounts ☐ Green Bond financed share of total investment ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Impact reporting: ☐ Project - by - project ☒ On a project portfolio basis ☐ Linkage to individual bond(s) ☐ Other (please specify): Frequency: ☒ Annual ☐ Semi - annual ☐ Other (please specify): Information reported (expected or ex - post): ☒ GHG Emissions / Savings ☐ Energy Savings ☐ Decrease in water use ☐ Other ESG indicators (please specify):,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 12 Means of Disclosure ☐ Information published in financial report ☐ Information published in sustainability report ☒ Information published in ad hoc documents ☐ Other (please specify): ☒ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external review): annual reporting with regard to the Green Finance Projects will also be subject to external verification by Climate Bonds Initiative Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) https://www.volkswagenag.com/en/sustainability.html SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE Type(s) of Review provided: ☐ Consultancy (incl. 2 nd opinion) ☐ Certification ☐ Verification / Audit ☐ Rating ☐ Other (please specify): Review provider(s): Date of publication: ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP i. Second Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may issue a Second Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implemented within the institution to ensure the independence of the Second Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of the alignment with the Green B ond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s overarching objectives, strategy, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds. ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated set of criteria, typically pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with internal or exte rnal standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally sustainable features of underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact or alignment of reporting with the GBP, may also be termed verification. iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or label defines specific criteria, and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify consis tency with the certification criteria. iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, associated Green Bond framework or a key feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research pr oviders or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as a 2 - degree climate change scenario. Such sc oring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 13 Disclaimer © Sustainalytics 20 20 . All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights to the information contained herein is vested exclusively in Sustainalytics. No part of this deliverable may be reproduced, disseminated, comingled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made available to third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form or in any manner, be it electronically, mechanically, through photocopies or recordings without the express written consent of Sustainalytics.,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 14 As the information herein is based on information made available by the issuer, the informatio n is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics does not warrant that the information presented in this deliverable is complete, accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibility for errors or omissions and Sustainalytics will not accept any form of liability for the substance of the deliverable and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of this deliverable and/or the information provided in it. Any reference to third party names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and d oes not constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. Nothing contained in this deliverable shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty on the part of Sustainalytics, express or implied, regarding the advisability to invest in compa nies, selection of projects or make any kind of business transactions. It shall not be construed as an investment advice (as defined in the applicable jurisdiction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, fi nancial obligations nor its creditworthiness. The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their implementation and monitoring. In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated ve rsions, the English language version shall prevail.,Second - Party Opinion Volkswagen Green Bond 15 Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm that supports investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with institutional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 countries, the world’s leading issuers, from multinati onal corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for second - party opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds Standard Board as a verifier organization, and sup ports various stakeholders in the development and verification of their frameworks. In 2015, Global Capital awarded Sustainalytics “Best SRI or Green Bond Research or Ratings Firm” and in 2018 and 2019, named Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Part y Opinion Provider. The firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Climate Bonds Initiative as well as Environmental Finance in 2018, and in 2019 was named the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified Climate Bonds” by the Climate Bonds Initiative. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special Mention Sustainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan and the Minister of the Environment Award in the Japan Green Contributor category of the Japan Green Bond Awards in 2019. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com